In Java, the native integer type <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">provided by the CPU has a maximum range of 64-bit long integers</mark>. Using long integers allows for fast calculations directly through CPU instructions.

But what if we need to work with integer ranges that exceed the capacity of long integers? In such cases, we must use software to simulate large integers. `java.math.BigInteger` is used to represent integers of arbitrary size. Internally, BigInteger uses an `int[]` array to simulate a very large integer:

```java
BigInteger bi = new BigInteger("1234567890");
System.out.println(bi.pow(5)); // 2867971860299718107233761438093672048294900000
```

When performing operations on BigInteger, you can only use instance methods. For example, addition can be done like this:

```java
BigInteger i1 = new BigInteger("1234567890");
BigInteger i2 = new BigInteger("12345678901234567890");
BigInteger sum = i1.add(i2); // 12345678902469135780
```

Compared to long integers, BigInteger does not have a range limitation, but the drawback is that it is slower.

You can also convert a BigInteger to a long integer:

```java
BigInteger i = new BigInteger("123456789000");
System.out.println(i.longValue()); // 123456789000
System.out.println(i.multiply(i).longValueExact()); // java.lang.ArithmeticException: BigInteger out of long range
```

When using the `longValueExact()` method, if the BigInteger exceeds the range of long integers, it will throw an ArithmeticException.

Like Integer and Long, BigInteger is also an immutable class and inherits from the Number class. Because Number defines several methods for converting to primitive types:

- Convert to byte: `byteValue()`
- Convert to short: `shortValue()`
- Convert to int: `intValue()`
- Convert to long: `longValue()`
- Convert to float: `floatValue()`
- Convert to double: `doubleValue()`

Therefore, you can use these methods to convert BigInteger to primitive types. If the BigInteger's range exceeds that of the primitive type, the conversion will result in the loss of high-order information, meaning the result may not be accurate. If you need to accurately convert to primitive types, you can use methods like `intValueExact()`, `longValueExact()`, which will throw an ArithmeticException if the conversion exceeds the range.

Summary:
- BigInteger is used to represent integers of arbitrary size.
- BigInteger is an immutable class and inherits from Number.
- When converting BigInteger to primitive types, you can use methods like `longValueExact()` to ensure accuracy.