
### Model to describe Interesting classes
- Classification in machine learning is the process of building models to describe interesting classes of data, where the models are called classifiers. 
- The classification models are constructed by <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">a learning method or algorithm</mark> and can be used to <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">classify unseen data into pre-determined class labels</mark>.
- The models may also provide a compact summary of the data that is explanatory for humans. Typically, classification is binary, where objects are classified as belonging to a class or not, but generalizations to more than two classes are important.

### Types of Classification
- Classification is commonly used in science, marketing, fraud detection, performance prediction, medical diagnosis, and fault diagnosis. The distinction between classification and numerical prediction is that <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">classification deals with categorical class labels</mark>, while <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">numerical prediction builds models of continuous-valued functions</mark> to predict unknown or missing numeric values.

- Supervised learning is the classification approach where the training data has labels indicating the class of observations. 
	- Batch
	- Incremental learning

- Unsupervised learning has no class labels in the training data, and the algorithm must find interesting classes with which to classify new data, a process commonly called clustering. 
- Other problem variants in classification include semi-supervised learning and zero-shot learning, where the target classes lack labelled data.

---

### Construct and Apply

The process of constructing a classification model involves two main steps: 
- Training phase 
	- In the training phase (supervised), a model is built from the <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">labelled training dataset</mark>, where each tuple is assumed to belong to a predefined class. The training set is represented as T = {X: X = (x1, x2, ..., xn)}, where each xi is an attribute value and X belongs to some predefined class Cj. The model can be represented as classification rules, decision trees, mathematical formulae, or a "black box" and is used to predict the class label for some unlabelled tuple X. 
- Classification phase. 
	- In the classification phase, the accuracy of the model is evaluated using independent test samples, and if it is considered acceptable, the model is used to classify new, unlabelled data tuples.

---

### Evaluation and Selection of Learning Methods:

1.  Accuracy:
	-   Classifier accuracy: the ability of the model to predict the correct class label for test data sets.
	-   Predictor accuracy: the ability of the model to guess the correct value for predicted attributes.

2.  Expressivity:
	-   The ability of the algorithm to express answers for a specific type of problem data.
	-   The ability of the algorithm to express the required kind of answers.

3.  Speed and Complexity:
	-   The time taken to build the model (training time).
	-   The time taken to use the model (classification/prediction time).
	-   The worst-case or average-case theoretical complexity.

4.  Scalability:
	-   Efficiency in handling large-scale databases stored on disks.
	-   The potential for speedup by parallel computation.

5.  Robustness:
	-   The ability of the model to handle noise and outliers.

6.  Interpretability:
	-   The understanding and insight provided by the model.

7.  Other Measures:
	-   Goodness of rules.
	-   Decision tree size.
	-   Compactness or simplicity of the model.
