Opposite to `InputStream`, `OutputStream` is the most basic output stream provided by Java's standard library.

Similar to `InputStream`, `OutputStream` is an abstract class and is the superclass of all output streams. This abstract class defines one of the most important methods: `void write(int b)`, with the following signature:

```java
public abstract void write(int b) throws IOException;
```

This method writes one byte to the output stream. Note that although an `int` parameter is passed, only one byte is written, specifically the lower 8 bits of the `int` (`b & 0xff`).

Like `InputStream`, `OutputStream` also provides a `close()` method to close the output stream, thus releasing system resources. Importantly, `OutputStream` also has a `flush()` method, whose purpose is to actually output the content of the buffer to the destination.

Why is there a `flush()`? When writing data to the disk or network, for efficiency, the operating system does not immediately write or send each byte to the file or network. Instead, the output bytes are first placed in a memory buffer (essentially a `byte[]` array), and when the buffer is full, it is then written or sent at once. <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">For many IO devices, writing one byte versus a thousand bytes takes almost the same amount of time</mark>. Therefore, `OutputStream` has a `flush()` method, which can force the content of the buffer to be output immediately.

Usually, we don't need to call this `flush()` method because `OutputStream` will automatically call it when the buffer is full, and before closing the `OutputStream` with `close()`.

However, in some cases, we must manually call `flush()`. For example:

Xiao Ming is developing an online chat software. When a user inputs a sentence, it is written to the network stream using `OutputStream`'s `write()` method. During testing, Xiao Ming found that after the sender inputs, the receiver does not receive any information at all. Why is this?

The reason is that writing to a network stream first writes to the memory buffer, and only when the buffer is full will it be sent to the network at once. If the buffer size is 4K, the sender needs to type thousands of characters before the operating system sends the content of the buffer, and at this time, the receiver will receive a large amount of messages at once.

The solution is to call `flush()` immediately after inputting a sentence, regardless of whether the current buffer is full, forcing the operating system to immediately send the content of the buffer.

Actually, `InputStream` also has a buffer. For example, when reading a byte from `FileInputStream`, the operating system often reads several bytes into the buffer at once and maintains a pointer to the unread part of the buffer. Then, each time we call `int read()` to read the next byte, it can directly return the next byte from the buffer, avoiding IO operations for each byte read. When the buffer is completely read and `read()` is called again, it triggers the operating system's next read operation and refills the buffer.

### FileOutputStream

As an example, let's see how to write several bytes into a file stream using `FileOutputStream`:

```java
public void writeFile() throws IOException {
    OutputStream output = new FileOutputStream("out/readme.txt");
    output.write(72); // H
    output.write(101); // e
    output.write(108); // l
    output.write(108); // l
    output.write(111); // o
    output.close();
}
```

Writing each byte separately is cumbersome, and a more common method is to write several bytes at once. This can be accomplished using `OutputStream`'s overloaded method `void write(byte[])`:

```java
public void writeFile() throws IOException {
    OutputStream output = new FileOutputStream("out/readme.txt");
    output.write("Hello".getBytes("UTF-8")); // Hello
    output.close();
}
```

Like `InputStream`, the above code does not consider how to properly close resources in the event of an exception. The writing process can also frequently encounter IO errors, such as disk full, no write permission, etc. We need to use `try(resource)` to ensure that `OutputStream` is properly closed whether or not IO errors occur:

```java
public void writeFile() throws IOException {
    try (OutputStream output = new FileOutputStream("out/readme.txt")) {
        output.write("Hello".getBytes("UTF-8")); // Hello
    } // The compiler automatically writes `finally` and calls `close()` here.
}
```

### Blocking

Like `InputStream`, the `write()` method of `OutputStream` is also blocking.

### OutputStream Implementations

`FileOutputStream` is a commonly used `OutputStream` implementation class for obtaining output streams from

 files. Additionally, `ByteArrayOutputStream` can simulate an `OutputStream` in memory:

```java
import java.io.*;
public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) throws IOException {
        byte[] data;
        try (ByteArrayOutputStream output = new ByteArrayOutputStream()) {
            output.write("Hello ".getBytes("UTF-8"));
            output.write("world!".getBytes("UTF-8"));
            data = output.toByteArray();
        }
        System.out.println(new String(data, "UTF-8"));
    }
}
```

`ByteArrayOutputStream` actually turns a `byte[]` array into an `OutputStream` in memory. Although it's not commonly used in actual applications, it can be useful for constructing an `OutputStream` during testing.

When operating multiple `AutoCloseable` resources simultaneously, you can write multiple resources separated by `;` within the `try(resource) { ... }` statement. For example, when reading from one file and writing to another:

```java
// Reading from input.txt and writing to output.txt:
try (InputStream input = new FileInputStream("input.txt");
     OutputStream output = new FileOutputStream("output.txt"))
{
    input.transferTo(output); // What does `transferTo` do?
}
```