#### Basic Competency

It does not take a lot of skill to pick up a data mining tool and to push its buttons to run some algorithms  over some data and to get some output back again.   But this approach will not provide the required insight into application problems and can be very harmful in some circumstances.

The competent data miner _must_ be capable of 

-   <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">Selecting the right tool for the job</mark>. This will be informed by both the question being asked and the nature of the data that is used;  
    
-    Evaluating  the output of the tool. What is it telling you? How good are the results? Is there a way of obtaining better results? What does "better" mean for the particular question being asked?; and
-   Interpreting the results in the context of the question. What can be learnt from the results and  for what purpose can that information be ethically and robustly used?  

The following challenges are indicative of the issues which professional data miners encounter and for which data mining researchers attempt to create new methods.


----

#### Mining Methodology

-   Mining various and new kinds of knowledge
-   Mining knowledge in multi-dimensional space
-   Interdisciplinary skills
-   Boosting the power of discovery in a networked environment
-   Handling noise, uncertainty, and incompleteness of data
-   Pattern evaluation and pattern- or constraint-guided mining

#### Leveraging Human Knowledge

-   Goal-directed mining
-   Interactive mining
-   Incorporation of background knowledge
-   Presentation and visualization of data mining results

#### **Efficiency and Scalability**

-   Data reduction
-   Efficiency and scalability of data mining algorithms
-   Parallel, distributed, stream, and incremental mining methods

#### Diversity of Data Types

-   Handling complex types of data
-   Mining dynamic, networked, and global data repositories

#### Data Mining and Society

-   Social impacts of data mining
-   Privacy-preserving data mining
-   Bias and algorithmic transparency