### 0. Concepts

**Admissible:**
In the context of heuristic functions for search problems, a heuristic function h is said to be admissible if it never overestimates the actual cost to reach the goal node from a given state. In other words, the heuristic value h(n) for any node n is always less than or equal to the true cost of the optimal path from n to the goal node. A* search algorithm, which is widely used for solving pathfinding problems, guarantees an optimal solution if the heuristic function used is admissible.

$$h(n) \leq h^{*}(n)$$

where h(n) is the estimated cost of the cheapest path from node n to the goal, and h*(n) is the actual cost of the cheapest path from node n to the goal.

A heuristic function h(n) is said to be consistent if, for every node n and every successor n' of n generated by any action a, the estimated cost of reaching the goal from n is no greater than the step cost of getting to n' plus the estimated cost of reaching the goal from n'. This can be written as:

$h(n) \leq c(n, a, n') + h(n')$

where c(n, a, n') is the cost of applying action a from node n to reach n'.


### 1.
> Consider the search problem shown on the left. It has only three states, and three directed edges. A is the start node and G is the goal node. To the right, four difffferent heuristic functions are defifined, numbered I through IV.

```
graph = {A:{G:6,B:2}, B{C:3}}
```

|    | h(A) | h(B) | h(G) |
|----|------|------|------|
| I  | 4    | 1    | 0    |
| II | 6    | 3    | 0    |
| III| 4    | 3    | 0    |
| IV | 5    | 2    | 0    |


```
Heuristic I is not consistent: h(A) − h(B) = 4 − 1 = 3 !≤ c(A, B) = 2. (`h(A) - h(B)` is the estimated "heuristic distance" from node `B` to the goal node `G`)



```