Today, when we visit websites or use apps, it is based on the Web's Browser/Server model, also known as the BS architecture. Its characteristic is that the client only needs a browser, while the <mark style="background: #CACFD9A6;">application logic and data are stored on the server side</mark>. The browser simply requests the server, retrieves the web page, and displays it to the user.

Web pages are highly interactive. Since web pages are written in HTML, which has strong expressive power, and after the server side is upgraded, the client can use the new version without any deployment, making the BS architecture very easy to upgrade.

### HTTP Protocol
In Web applications, the browser requests a URL, and the server sends the generated HTML page back to the browser. The protocol used for transmission between the browser and the server is HTTP, so:
- HTML is a text used to define web pages; knowing HTML allows you to write web pages.
- HTTP is a protocol for transmitting HTML over the network, used for communication between the browser and the server.

For the browser, the process of requesting a page is as follows:
1. Establish a TCP connection with the server.
2. Send an HTTP request.
3. Receive the HTTP response and then display the web page in the browser.

**Example**: The <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">HTTP request</mark> sent by the browser is as follows:
```
GET / HTTP/1.1
Host: www.youtube.com
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 xxx
Accept: */*
Accept-Language: zh-CN,zh;q=0.9,en-US;q=0.8
```
The first line indicates using a GET request to retrieve the resource at path `/` and using the HTTP/1.1 protocol. From the second line, each line represents an HTTP header in the `Header: Value` format. Common HTTP headers include:
- **Host:** Indicates the hostname requested because a server might host multiple websites, so Host indicates the domain the browser is requesting.
- **User-Agent:** Identifies the client itself, such as Chrome's identifier similar to Mozilla/5.0 ... Chrome/79, IE's identifier like Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT ...) like Gecko.
- **Accept:** Indicates the type of resources the browser can receive, such as text/*, image/*, or */* for all.
- **Accept-Language:** Indicates the browser's preferred language; the server can return web pages in different languages based on this.
- **Accept-Encoding:** Indicates the compression types supported by the browser, such as gzip, deflate, br.

The server's response is as follows:
```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 21932
Content-Encoding: gzip
Cache-Control: max-age=300

<html>...web page data...
```
The server's first response line always starts with the version number, followed by a space, a numerical code, another space, and text for debugging purposes. The numerical code indicates the response status, where <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">2xx indicates success</mark>, <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">3xx indicates redirection</mark>, <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">4xx indicates client errors</mark>, and <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">5xx indicates server errors</mark>.

- 200 OK: indicates success;
- 301 Moved Permanently: Indicates that the URL has been permanently redirected;
- 302 Found: Indicates that the URL requires temporary redirection;
- 304 Not Modified: Indicates that the resource has not been modified and the client can use the locally cached version;
- 400 Bad Request: Indicates that the client sent an incorrect request, such as invalid parameters;
- 401 Unauthorized: Indicates that the client is not allowed to access the URL because the identity is not verified;
- 403 Forbidden: Indicates that the server rejected the client's request due to permission issues;
- 404 Not Found: Indicates that the client requested a resource that does not exist;
- 500 Internal Server Error: Indicates an internal error during server processing, for example, because it cannot connect to the database;
- 503 Service Unavailable: Indicates that the server is temporarily unable to process the request at the moment

From the second line, the server returns an HTTP header on each line. Commonly returned HTTP headers include:
- **Content-Type:** Indicates the type of the response content, such as text/html, image/jpeg.
- **Content-Length:** Indicates the length of the response content (in bytes).
- **Content-Encoding:** Indicates the response compression algorithm, such as gzip.
- **Cache-Control:** Instructs how the client should cache the content; for example, max-age=300 indicates that the content can be cached for up to 300 seconds.

HTTP requests and responses consist of HTTP Headers and an HTTP Body, where each HTTP Header line ends with `\r\n`. If two consecutive `\r\n` are encountered, the following part is the HTTP Body. The browser reads the HTTP Body and displays web pages, images, or other content according to the Content-Type and Content-Encoding indicated in the Header information.

Usually, the <mark style="background: #ABF7F7A6;">first resource obtained by the browser is an HTML web page</mark>. In the web page, if JavaScript, CSS, images, videos, or <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">other resources are embedded, the browser will request the corresponding resources from the server based on the resource's URL</mark>.

For detailed information about the HTTP protocol, please refer to the book *HTTP: The Definitive Guide* or the Mozilla developer website.

Previously, we introduced HTTP programming from the client's perspective to request server resources. Now, we need to respond to client requests from the server's perspective, which is commonly known as web development.

### Writing an HTTP Server
Let's take a look at how to write an HTTP Server. An HTTP Server is essentially a TCP server. Here's an example using a multithreaded server framework in TCP programming:

```java
public class Server {
    public static void main(String[] args) throws IOException {
        ServerSocket ss = new ServerSocket(8080); // Listen on the specified port
        System.out.println("server is running...");
        for (;;) {
            Socket sock = ss.accept();
            System.out.println("connected from " + sock.getRemoteSocketAddress());
            Thread t = new Handler(sock);
            t.start();
        }
    }
}

class Handler extends Thread {
    Socket sock;

    public Handler(Socket sock) {
        this.sock = sock;
    }

    public void run() {
        try (InputStream input = this.sock.getInputStream()) {
            try (OutputStream output = this.sock.getOutputStream()) {
                handle(input, output);
            }
        } catch (Exception e) {
        } finally {
            try {
                this.sock.close();
            } catch (IOException ioe) {
            }
            System.out.println("client disconnected.");
        }
    }

    private void handle(InputStream input, OutputStream output) throws IOException {
        var reader = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(input, StandardCharsets.UTF_8));
        var writer = a BufferedWriter(new OutputStreamWriter(output, StandardCharsets.UTF_8));
        // TODO: Handle the HTTP request
    }
}
```
You just need to read the HTTP request with the `Reader` in the `handle()` method and send the HTTP response with the `Writer` to implement a simple HTTP server.

Here is how the code looks:
```java
private void handle(InputStream input, OutputStream output) throws IOException {
    System.out.println("Process new HTTP request...");
    var reader = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(input, StandardCharsets.UTF_8));
    var writer = a BufferedWriter(new OutputStreamWriter(output, StandardCharsets.UTF_8));
    // Read the HTTP request:
    boolean requestOk = false;
    String first = reader.readLine();
    if (first.startsWith("GET / HTTP/1.")) {
        requestOk = true;
    }
    for (;;) {
        String header = reader.readLine();
        if (header.isEmpty()) { // An empty line indicates the end of the HTTP Header
            break;
        }
        System.out.println(header);
    }
    System.out.println(requestOk ? "Response OK" : "Response Error");
    if (!requestOk) {
        // Send error response:
        writer.write("HTTP/1.0 404 Not Found\r\n");
        writer.write("Content-Length: 0\r\n");
        writer.write("\r\n");
        writer.flush();
    } else {
        // Send successful response:
        String data = "<html><body><h1>Hello, world!</h1></body></html>";
        int length = data.getBytes(StandardCharsets.UTF_8).length;
        writer.write("HTTP/1.0 200 OK\r\n");
        writer.write("Connection: close\r\n");
        writer.write("Content-Type: text/html\r\n");
        writer.write("Content-Length: " + length + "\r\n");
        writer.write("\r\n"); // An empty line indicates the separation of Header and Body
        writer.write(data);
        writer.flush();
    }
}
```
The core of this code is to first read the HTTP request, handling only GET / requests. When an empty line is read, it indicates the end of the HTTP request, allowing for the response to be sent. When sending the response, first send the response code `HTTP/1.0 200 OK` indicating a successful 200 response using the HTTP/1.0 protocol, then send Headers, followed by an empty line indicating the end of the Header, and finally send the HTTP Body.

HTTP currently has multiple versions. Version 1.0 is an early version where the browser establishes a TCP connection, sends a single HTTP request, and receives a response, then closes the TCP connection. Due to the time taken to establish a TCP connection, HTTP 1.1 allows the browser and server to send and receive multiple HTTP requests and responses over the same TCP connection, greatly improving transmission efficiency.

We notice that the HTTP protocol is a request-response protocol, always sending a request and then receiving a response. Is it possible to send multiple requests at once and then receive multiple responses? HTTP 2.0 can support the browser sending multiple requests simultaneously, but each request needs a unique identifier, and the server can return multiple responses not in the order of the requests, with the browser matching

 the received responses to the requests. Clearly, HTTP 2.0 further improves transmission efficiency, as the browser can continue sending another request without waiting for a response.

HTTP 3.0, aiming to further increase speed, will abandon the TCP protocol and switch to the connection-less UDP protocol. Currently, HTTP 3.0 is still in the experimental stage.