In the previous section, we saw that writing an HTTP server is actually quite simple. You just need to write a multi-threaded TCP service, then read HTTP requests and send responses within a TCP connection.

However, to develop a comprehensive HTTP server, taking HTTP/1.1 as an example, there are several aspects to consider:

- Recognizing correct and incorrect HTTP requests;
- Identifying correct and incorrect HTTP headers;
- Reusing TCP connections;
- Reusing threads;
- Handling IO exceptions;
- ...

These foundational tasks can be time-consuming and typically require extensive testing to ensure stability. If we need to output a simple HTML page, writing thousands of lines of underlying code is neither efficient nor reliable.

Therefore, on the JavaEE platform, tasks such as handling TCP connections and parsing HTTP protocol are delegated to existing web servers, while we just run our applications on these servers. To achieve this, JavaEE provides the Servlet API. We write our own servlets using the <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">Servlet API to handle HTTP requests</mark>, and the web server implements the Servlet API to perform underlying functions:

```
                 ┌───────────┐
                 │My Servlet │
                 ├───────────┤
                 │Servlet API│
┌───────┐  HTTP  ├───────────┤
│Browser│<──────>│Web Server │
└───────┘        └───────────┘
```

Here's how to implement a simple servlet:

```java
// @WebServlet annotation indicates this is a Servlet and maps it to the address "/":
@WebServlet(urlPatterns = "/")
public class HelloServlet extends HttpServlet {
    protected void doGet(HttpServletRequest req, HttpServletResponse resp)
            throws ServletException, IOException {
        // Set response type:
        resp.setContentType("text/html");
        // Get the output stream:
        PrintWriter pw = resp.getWriter();
        // Write the response:
        pw.write("<h1>Hello, world!</h1>");
        // Finally, don't forget to flush to force output:
        pw.flush();
    }
}
```

A servlet always extends `HttpServlet` and overrides methods like `doGet()` or `doPost()`. The `doGet()` method receives `HttpServletRequest` and `HttpServletResponse` objects, representing the HTTP request and response. When using the Servlet API, we do not interact directly with the underlying TCP or parse HTTP protocol, because `HttpServletRequest` and `HttpServletResponse` have already encapsulated these details. For sending a response, we just need to set the correct response type, then get and use `PrintWriter` to write the response.

Now the question arises: Who provides the Servlet API?

The Servlet API is available as a JAR package, which we need to include via Maven for normal compilation. Below is an example of how to write a `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<project xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0"
    xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
    xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0 http://maven.apache.org/maven-v4_0_0.xsd">
    <modelVersion>4.0.0</modelVersion>
    <groupId>com.jasper.learnjava</groupId>
    <artifactId>web-servlet-hello</artifactId>
    <packaging>war</packaging>
    <version>1.0-SNAPSHOT</version>

    <properties>
        <project.build.sourceEncoding>UTF-8</project.build.sourceEncoding>
        <project.reporting.outputEncoding>UTF-8</project.reporting.outputEncoding>
        <maven.compiler.source>17</maven.compiler.source>
        <maven.compiler.target>17</maven.compiler.target>
        <java.version>17</java.version>
    </properties>

    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>jakarta.servlet</groupId>
            <artifactId>jakarta.servlet-api</artifactId>
            <version>5.0.0</version>
            <scope>provided</scope>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>

    <build>
        <finalName>hello</finalName>
    </build>
</project>
```

The `pom.xml` file differs from a standard Java program in that the packaging type is `war` instead of `jar`, indicating a Java Web Application Archive:

```xml
<packaging>war</packaging>
```

The included Servlet API is as follows:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>jakarta.servlet</groupId>
    <artifactId>jakarta.servlet-api</artifactId>
    <version>5.0.0</version>
    <scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
```

The `<scope>` is specified as `provided`, which means it's used during compilation but not packaged into the `.war` file, as the web server itself provides the Servlet API JAR packages at runtime.

**Servlet Versions**
It's crucial to be aware of the servlet-api version. Servlet API versions 4.0 and earlier were maintained by Oracle, and their dependency was `javax.servlet:javax.servlet-api` with package names:

```java
import javax.servlet.*;
```

Version 5.0 and later are maintained by the Eclipse open-source community, with the dependency being `jakarta.servlet:jakarta.servlet-api`, and the package names are:

```java
import jakarta.servlet.*;
```

Here uses the latest `jakarta.servlet:5.0.0` version, but for many frameworks that only support Servlet 4.0, such as Spring 5, we can only use `javax.servlet:4.0.0`. This distinction is crucial depending on the project.

Different versions of the Servlet API require different package names in the code. The overall project structure is as follows:

```
web-servlet-hello
├── pom.xml
└── src
    └── main
        ├── java
        │   └── com
        │       └── jasper
        │           └── learnjava
        │               └── servlet
        │                   └── HelloServlet.java
        ├── resources
        └── webapp
```

The `webapp` directory is currently empty. If we need to store some resource files, they should be placed in this directory. Some might wonder whether a `/WEB-INF/web.xml` configuration file is necessary in the `webapp` directory. This configuration file is mandatory for lower versions of Servlet but is no longer needed for higher versions, so it's not required.

Run the Maven command `mvn clean package` to produce a `hello.war` file in the `target` directory, which is our compiled and packaged web application.

If you encounter an error during the package command like "Execution default-war of goal org.apache.maven.plugins:maven-war-plugin:2.2:war failed," you can manually specify the latest `maven-war-plugin` version 3.3.2, as shown in the exercise project's `pom.xml`.

Now the question is: How do we run this `war` file?

Ordinary Java programs start by launching the JVM and executing the `main()` method. However, web applications differ; we cannot run the `war` file directly. It must first be loaded by a web server, which then loads our `HelloServlet` to handle requests from the browser.

Thus, we need to find a web server that supports the Servlet API. Common servers include:

- Tomcat: An open-source, free server developed by Apache;
- Jetty: An open-source, free server developed by Eclipse;
- GlassFish: An open-source, full-feature JavaEE server.
There are also some commercial servers, like Oracle's WebLogic and IBM's WebSphere.

Regardless of the server used, as long as it supports Servlet API 5.0 (since our Servlet version is 5.0), our war package can run on it. Here, we'll use the widely used, open-source, free Tomcat server.

To run our `hello.war`, first download and extract the Tomcat server, then copy `hello.war` into Tomcat's `webapps` directory. Next, switch to the `bin` directory and execute `startup.sh` or `startup.bat` to start the Tomcat server:

```bash
$ ./startup.sh 
Using CATALINA_BASE:   .../apache-tomcat-10.1.x
Using CATALINA_HOME:   .../apache-tomcat-10.1.x
Using CATALINA_TMPDIR: .../apache-tomcat-10.1.x/temp
Using JRE_HOME:        .../jdk-17.jdk/Contents/Home
Using CLASSPATH:       .../apache-tomcat-10.1.x/bin/bootstrap.jar:...
Tomcat started.
```

Enter `http://localhost:8080/hello/` in your browser to see the output of `HelloServlet`:

```
Hello, servlet
```

Attentive folks might ask why the path is `/hello/` and not just `/`. It's because a web server allows multiple web apps to run simultaneously. Our web app is named `hello`, so the first-level directory `/hello` represents the name of the web app, and the subsequent `/` is the path mapped in `HelloServlet`.

Can we use `/` instead of `/hello/` for simplicity?

The answer is yes. First, shut down Tomcat (execute `shutdown.sh` or `shutdown.bat`), then delete all folders and files under Tomcat's `webapps` directory. Finally, copy our `hello.war` over and rename it to `ROOT.war`. An application named `ROOT` will act as the default application, and accessing `http://localhost:8080/` after starting will take you directly there.

In reality, servers like Tomcat are also written in Java. <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">Starting the Tomcat server is essentially launching a Java virtual machine</mark>, executing Tomcat's `main()` method, and then loading our `.war` file to create an instance of `HelloServlet`. Finally, it handles HTTP requests in a multi-threaded mode. If the Tomcat server receives a request with the path `/` (assuming the deployed file is `ROOT.war`), it forwards it to `HelloServlet` and passes in `HttpServletRequest` and `HttpServletResponse` objects.

Because our Servlet is not directly runnable but loaded and instantiated by a web server, servers like Tomcat are also known as Servlet containers.

**Tomcat Versions**
Since Servlet versions are divided into <=4.0 and >=5.0, the correct Tomcat version must be selected based on the Servlet version used. From the Tomcat version page, it is known:

- Use Servlet <=4.0 with Tomcat 9.x or lower;
- Use Servlet >=5.0 with Tomcat 10.x or higher.
This tutorial requires using Tomcat 10.x.

Servlets running in a Servlet container have the following characteristics:

- Servlet instances cannot be created directly through new in the code; they must be automatically created by the Servlet container.
- The Servlet container creates only one instance per Servlet class.
- The Servlet container executes `doGet()` or `doPost()` methods using multiple threads.
Recalling Java's multi-threading content, we can conclude:

- Instance variables defined in Servlets are accessed by multiple threads simultaneously, so thread safety must be considered.
- `HttpServletRequest` and `HttpServletResponse` instances are passed by the Servlet container as local variables and are only accessible by the current thread, so there are no multi-thread access issues.
- If `ThreadLocal` is used in `doGet()` or `doPost()` methods without being cleaned up, its state might affect a future request because the Servlet container might reuse threads through a thread pool.