From previous chapters, we've seen that a Servlet is essentially a small program capable of handling HTTP requests and sending HTTP responses. Typically, this involves obtaining a `PrintWriter` and outputting HTML:

```java
PrintWriter pw = resp.getWriter();
pw.write("<html>");
pw.write("<body>");
pw.write("<h1>Welcome, " + name + "!</h1>");
pw.write("</body>");
pw.write("</html>");
pw.flush();
```

However, using `PrintWriter` to output HTML can be cumbersome, as it not only requires correct HTML syntax but also the insertion of various variables. If you wanted to output an HTML page like the homepage of Sina using a Servlet, getting the HTML right is nearly impossible.

Is there an easier way to output HTML?

Yes, we can use JSP.

**JSP**, short for Java Server Pages, must be placed in the `/src/main/webapp` directory and the files must end with `.jsp`. These files are similar to HTML files but include special tags for inserting variables or dynamically generating content, using the `<% ... %>` syntax.

Let's write a `hello.jsp` with the following content:

```html
<html>
<head>
    <title>Hello World - JSP</title>
</head>
<body>
    <%-- JSP Comment --%>
    <h1>Hello World!</h1>
    <p>
    <%
         out.println("Your IP address is ");
    %>
    <span style="color:red">
        <%= request.getRemoteAddr() %>
    </span>
    </p>
</body>
</html>
```

The contents of the JSP are essentially HTML, but with some distinctions:

- Anything between `<%--` and `--%>` is a JSP comment and will be ignored.
- Anything between `<%` and `%>` is Java code and any Java code can be written here.
- `<%= xxx %>` provides a shortcut for outputting the value of a variable.

JSP pages inherently provide a few built-in variables:

- `out`: Represents the `PrintWriter` of the `HttpServletResponse`.
- `session`: Represents the current `HttpSession` object.
- `request`: Represents the `HttpServletRequest` object.

These variables can be used directly without explicit declaration.

When accessing a JSP page, you simply specify the full path. For example, accessing `http://localhost:8080/hello.jsp` in your browser would display the page as designed.

**What's the difference between JSP and Servlet?** There is actually no difference, as JSP is first compiled into a Servlet before execution. In Tomcat's temporary directory, you can find a source file named `hello_jsp.java`, which is the Servlet source code automatically generated from the JSP:

```java
package org.apache.jsp;
import ...

public final class hello_jsp extends org.apache.jasper.runtime.HttpJspBase
    implements org.apache.jasper.runtime.JspSourceDependent,
               org.apache.jasper.runtime.JspSourceImports {

    ...

    public void _jspService(final javax.servlet.http.HttpServletRequest request, final javax.servlet.http.HttpServletResponse response)
        throws java.io.IOException, javax.servlet.ServletException {
        ...
        out.write("<html>\n");
        out.write("<head>\n");
        out.write("    <title>Hello World - JSP</title>\n");
        out.write("</head>\n");
        out.write("<body>\n");
        ...
    }
    ...
}
```

JSP is fundamentally a Servlet, albeit one without a configured mapping path. The web server automatically locates the corresponding `.jsp` file, compiles it into a Servlet, and executes it. If the JSP is modified while the server is running, the server will automatically recompile it.

### Advanced JSP Features

JSP directives can be complex. Besides `<% ... %>`, JSP pages can include Java classes using the page directive:

```jsp
<%@ page import="java.io.*" %>
<%@ page import="java.util.*" %>
```

This allows subsequent Java code to refer to classes by their simple names instead of their fully qualified names.

The include directive can be used to incorporate other JSP files:

```html
<html>
<body>
    <%@ include file="header.jsp" %>
    <h1>Index Page</h1>
    <%@ include file="footer.jsp" %>
</body>
</html>
```

**JSP Tags**
JSP also allows for custom output tags, such as:

```jsp
<c:out value = "${sessionScope.user.name}" />
```

Using JSP tags requires correctly importing `taglib` jars and declaring them, which can be quite complex. For page development, using JSP tags is generally discouraged in favor of simpler template engines.
