Through previous chapters, we've observed:

- **Servlets** are suited for writing Java code and implementing various complex business logic but are not ideal for outputting complex HTML.
- **JSPs** are suitable for writing HTML and inserting dynamic content but not for complex Java code.

Is it possible to combine the strengths of both, avoiding their weaknesses?

The answer is yes. Let's examine a specific example.

Suppose we have already written a few JavaBeans:

```java
public class User {
    public long id;
    public String name;
    public School school;
}

public class School {
    public String name;
    public String address;
}
```

In `UserServlet`, we might fetch `User` and `School` information from a database, then store these JavaBeans in `HttpServletRequest` and forward them to `user.jsp` for processing:

```java
@WebServlet(urlPatterns = "/user")
public class UserServlet extends HttpServlet {
    protected void doGet(HttpServletRequest req, HttpServletResponse resp) throws ServletException, IOException {
        // Pretend to fetch from database:
        School school = new School("No.1 Middle School", "101 South Street");
        User user = new User(123, "Bob", school);
        // Store in Request:
        req.setAttribute("user", user);
        // Forward to user.jsp:
        req.getRequestDispatcher("/WEB-INF/user.jsp").forward(req, resp);
    }
}
```

In `user.jsp`, we are only responsible for displaying the information of the JavaBeans without needing to write complex logic like database access:

```jsp
<%@ page import="com.jasper.learnjava.bean.*"%>
<%
    User user = (User) request.getAttribute("user");
%>
<html>
<head>
    <title>Hello World - JSP</title>
</head>
<body>
    <h1>Hello <%= user.name %>!</h1>
    <p>School Name:
    <span style="color:red">
        <%= user.school.name %>
    </span>
    </p>
    <p>School Address:
    <span style="color:red">
        <%= user.school.address %>
    </span>
    </p>
</body>
</html>
```

**Points to note**:

- The `User` to be displayed is stored in `HttpServletRequest` to be passed to the JSP because one request corresponds to one `HttpServletRequest`. We don't need to clear it; the `HttpServletRequest` instance will be discarded after the request is processed.
- Placing `user.jsp` in the `/WEB-INF/` directory is critical because `WEB-INF` is a special directory that web servers prevent browsers from accessing directly. This prevents users from accessing the JSP page directly via the `/user.jsp` path.
- The JSP first retrieves the `User` instance from the `request` variable, then directly outputs it on the page. This example does not consider HTML escaping, which poses potential security risks.

Accessing `http://localhost:8080/user` in a browser, the request is first processed by `UserServlet`, then rendered by `user.jsp`.

We view `UserServlet` as handling business logic (`Controller`), `User` as the data model (`Model`), and `user.jsp` as the renderer (`View`). This design pattern is commonly known as **MVC: Model-View-Controller**, where:

- `UserServlet` acts as the **Controller**
- `User` serves as the **Model**
- `user.jsp` functions as the **View**

The overall MVC architecture can be visualized as follows:

```
                   ┌───────────────────────┐
             ┌────>│Controller: UserServlet│
             │     └───────────────────────┘
             │                 │
┌───────┐    │           ┌─────┴─────┐
│Browser│────┘           │Model: User│
│       │<───┐           └─────┬─────┘
└───────┘    │                 │
             │                 ▼
             │     ┌───────────────────────┐
             └─────│    View: user.jsp     │
                   └───────────────────────┘
```

**Benefits of the MVC Model**:

- **Controller** focuses on business processing; its result is the **Model**. The Model can be a JavaBean or a Map containing multiple objects. The Controller's sole responsibility is to pass the Model to the View.
- **View** is solely responsible for "rendering" the Model, ensuring clear separation of duties. This makes development simpler because when developing the Controller, there is

 no need to worry about the page details, and when developing the View, there is no concern about how to create the Model.

MVC is widely used in web pages and traditional desktop applications. Here, we implemented a simple MVC model using Servlets and JSPs, but it's not yet as succinct and flexible as needed. In subsequent discussions, we'll introduce a simpler development approach using Spring MVC.