A cache is a small amount of fast memory that is used to store frequently accessed data or instructions to speed up the CPU's performance.

### Cache Types

#### Level 1 Cache (L1 Cache)

-   L1 cache is built into the CPU itself
-   It is the fastest but also the smallest cache
-   It stores frequently used data and instructions that are currently in use by the CPU

#### Level 2 Cache (L2 Cache)

-   L2 cache is <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">located on the motherboard</mark>
-   It is larger than L1 cache but slower
-   It also stores frequently used data and instructions that are not currently in use by the CPU

#### Level 3 Cache (L3 Cache)

-   L3 cache is also located on the motherboard
-   It is even larger than L2 cache but slower
-   It also stores frequently used data and instructions that are not currently in use by the CPU

### Cache Working

When the CPU needs to access data or instructions, it <mark style="background: #ABF7F7A6;">first checks the cache</mark>. If the data or instructions are not found in the cache, then the CPU has to access the slower main memory (RAM) to retrieve the required data or instructions.

When data or instructions are retrieved from main memory, they are stored in the cache. If the CPU needs to access that data or instructions again in the near future, it can retrieve them from the faster cache instead of having to access the slower main memory again.

### Cache Performance

The performance of a cache is measured in terms of hit rate and miss rate.

-   A **hit** occurs when the CPU successfully retrieves data or instructions from the cache.
-   A **miss** occurs when the CPU has to retrieve data or instructions from main memory because they were not found in the cache.

The cache performance can be improved by increasing the size of the cache or by using more levels of cache. However, increasing the cache size also increases the cost of the computer system. Additionally, the cache performance can be affected by the cache placement policy, replacement policy, and write policy.