In a unit test, we often write multiple `@Test` methods to organize and categorize tests for the target code.

During testing, we frequently encounter situations where an object needs initialization and possibly cleanup after testing. Repeating such initialization and cleanup code in every `@Test` method can be cumbersome.

JUnit offers the ability to write setup and cleanup code for testing, known as Fixtures.

Let's consider a specific example with a `Calculator` class:

```java
public class Calculator {
    private long n = 0;

    public long add(long x) {
        n = n + x;
        return n;
    }

    public long sub(long x) {
        n = n - x;
        return n;
    }
}
```

This class has simple functionality, but for testing, we need to initialize the object. We don't have to include initialization code in every test method. Instead, we can use `@BeforeEach` for initialization and `@AfterEach` for resource cleanup:

```java
public class CalculatorTest {

    Calculator calculator;

    @BeforeEach
    public void setUp() {
        this.calculator = new Calculator();
    }

    @AfterEach
    public void tearDown() {
        this.calculator = null;
    }

    @Test
    void testAdd() {
        assertEquals(100, this.calculator.add(100));
        assertEquals(150, this.calculator.add(50));
        assertEquals(130, this.calculator.add(-20));
    }

    @Test
    void testSub() {
        assertEquals(-100, this.calculator.sub(100));
        assertEquals(-150, this.calculator.sub(50));
        assertEquals(-130, this.calculator.sub(-20));
    }
}
```

In `CalculatorTest`, the methods marked with `@BeforeEach` and `@AfterEach` automatically run before and after each `@Test` method.

The execution order of the test code in JUnit is as follows:

```java
for (Method testMethod : findTestMethods(CalculatorTest.class)) {
    var test = new CalculatorTest(); // Create Test instance
    invokeBeforeEach(test);
        invokeTestMethod(test, testMethod);
    invokeAfterEach(test);
}
```

`@BeforeEach` and `@AfterEach` "surround" each `@Test` method.

Some resource initialization and cleanup might be more complicated and time-consuming, such as setting up a database. JUnit also provides `@BeforeAll` and `@AfterAll`, which run before and after all `@Test` methods:

```java
invokeBeforeAll(CalculatorTest.class);
for (Method testMethod : findTestMethods(CalculatorTest.class)) {
    var test = new CalculatorTest(); // Create Test instance
    invokeBeforeEach(test);
        invokeTestMethod(test, testMethod);
    invokeAfterEach(test);
}
invokeAfterAll(CalculatorTest.class);
```

Since `@BeforeAll` and `@AfterAll` run only once before and after all `@Test` methods, they can only initialize static variables, for example:

```java
public class DatabaseTest {
    static Database db;

    @BeforeAll
    public static void initDatabase() {
        db = createDb(...);
    }
    
    @AfterAll
    public static void dropDatabase() {
        ...
    }
}
```

`@BeforeAll` and `@AfterAll` must be marked on static methods.

Thus, we summarize the pattern for writing Fixtures as follows:

- For instance variables, initialize them in `@BeforeEach` and clean them up in `@AfterEach`. They do not affect each other across `@Test` methods because they belong to different instances.
- For static variables, initialize them in `@BeforeAll` and clean them up in `@AfterAll`. They are unique across `@Test` methods and will affect each other.

In most cases, using `@BeforeEach` and `@AfterEach` is sufficient. `@BeforeAll` and `@AfterAll` are used mainly when initializing some test resources takes so long that we must "reuse" them as much as possible.

Finally, note that JUnit creates an instance of `XxxTest` before running each `@Test` method. Therefore, each `@Test` method's member variables are independent, and it's neither possible nor advisable to carry the state of member variables from one `@Test` method to another.