When the input and output to be tested form a set of data:
- You can organize the test data
- Use different test data to call the same test method

The difference between parameterized testing and ordinary testing lies in that a test method needs to receive at least one parameter and then run repeatedly with a set of parameters.

JUnit provides an `@ParameterizedTest` annotation for parameterized testing.

Let's say we want to test `Math.abs()`, first with a set of positive numbers:

```java
@ParameterizedTest
@ValueSource(ints = { 0, 1, 5, 100 })
void testAbs(int x) {
    assertEquals(x, Math.abs(x));
}
```

And then with a set of negative numbers:

```java
@ParameterizedTest
@ValueSource(ints = { -1, -5, -100 })
void testAbsNegative(int x) {
    assertEquals(-x, Math.abs(x));
}
```

Note that the annotation for parameterized testing is `@ParameterizedTest`, not the ordinary `@Test`.

Real-world testing scenarios are often not so simple. Suppose we've written a `StringUtils.capitalize()` method, which capitalizes the first letter of a string and converts the rest to lowercase:

```java
public class StringUtils {
    public static String capitalize(String s) {
        if (s.length() == 0) {
            return s;
        }
        return Character.toUpperCase(s.charAt(0)) + s.substring(1).toLowerCase();
    }
}
```

To test this method with parameterized tests, we need to provide both the input and the expected output, so the test method needs to receive at least two parameters:

```java
@ParameterizedTest
void testCapitalize(String input, String result) {
    assertEquals(result, StringUtils.capitalize(input));
}
```

How do we pass the parameters?

The simplest way is through the `@MethodSource` annotation, allowing us to write a static method with the same name to provide test parameters:

```java
@ParameterizedTest
@MethodSource
void testCapitalize(String input, String result) {
    assertEquals(result, StringUtils.capitalize(input));
}

static List<Arguments> testCapitalize() {
    return List.of( // arguments:
            Arguments.of("abc", "Abc"),
            Arguments.of("APPLE", "Apple"),
            Arguments.of("gooD", "Good"));
}
```

The code above is straightforward: the static method `testCapitalize()` returns a set of test parameters, each containing two `String` values, which are passed into the test method as parameters.

- If the static method and test method's names are different, `@MethodSource` also allows specifying the method name. However, using the default method with the same name is most convenient.

Another way to pass test parameters is using `@CsvSource`, where each string represents a line, and several parameters within a line are separated by commas. Thus, the test above can be rewritten as follows:

```java
@ParameterizedTest
@CsvSource({ "abc, Abc", "APPLE, Apple", "gooD, Good" })
void testCapitalize(String input, String result) {
    assertEquals(result, StringUtils.capitalize(input));
}
```

If there are hundreds or thousands of test inputs, writing `@CsvSource` directly becomes inconvenient. In this case, we can put the test data into a separate CSV file and annotate with `@CsvFileSource`:

```java
@ParameterizedTest
@CsvFileSource(resources = { "/test-capitalize.csv" })
void testCapitalizeUsingCsvFile(String input, String result) {
    assertEquals(result, StringUtils.capitalize(input));
}
```

JUnit looks for the specified CSV file only in the classpath, so the `test-capitalize.csv` file needs to be placed in the test directory, with content like:

```
apple, Apple
HELLO, Hello
JUnit, Junit
reSource, Resource
```