Exception handling is crucial in Java programs.

The methods we write often throw various exceptions. Testing for potential exceptions is an important aspect of testing.

Thus, when writing JUnit tests, in addition to normal input and output, we should specifically test for situations that might lead to exceptions.

Let's continue using Factorial as an example:

```java
public class Factorial {
    public static long fact(long n) {
        if (n < 0) {
            throw new IllegalArgumentException();
        }
        long r = 1;
        for (long i = 1; i <= n; i++) {
            r = r * i;
        }
        return r;
    }
}
```

At the method's entry, we added a check for the parameter `n`. If it is negative, we directly throw `IllegalArgumentException`.

Now, we want to test for exceptions. In JUnit tests, we can write a `@Test` method specifically to test exceptions:

```java
@Test
void testNegative() {
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, new Executable() {
        @Override
        public void execute() throws Throwable {
            Factorial.fact(-1);
        }
    });
}
```

JUnit provides `assertThrows()` to expect catching a specified exception. The second parameter `Executable` encapsulates the code that will produce the exception. When we execute `Factorial.fact(-1)`, `IllegalArgumentException` must be thrown. `assertThrows()` passes the test if it catches the specified exception. If it doesn't catch an exception, or if it catches the wrong type of exception, the test fails.

Some may find writing an `Executable` anonymous class too cumbersome. In fact, since Java 8 introduced functional programming, all single-method interfaces can be abbreviated as follows:

```java
@Test
void testNegative() {
    assertThrows(IllegalArgumentException.class, () -> {
        Factorial.fact(-1);
    });
}
```

The strange `->` syntax above is the implementation code for the functional interface, which we'll discuss in detail later. For now, we only need to use this fixed code to write statements that can throw an exception.