
Data is generally structured as **objects,** with each object described by some kind of **properties**, or **attributes**, or **features**,  of some real-world or abstract entity. Some of those attributes may include **relationships** to other objects.  

The objects may alternatively be called _samples, examples, instances, data points, observations, rows, tuples, records,_ or _vectors._ The attributes may be called _fields, variables, dimensions, properties,_ or _features._ This will depend on the data model or data mining discipline you are working with, and you need to be comfortable with all of those names.

Commonly, a **data model**  (also called a **meta-model**) dictates how these concepts are materialised in a data structure, such as the relational data model, for example.  Alternatively,  **data model** (but not _meta-model_) could refer to a model that instantiates a particular meta-model for some domain of application, for example, the particular relational schema that is used in your hospital's medical records system.

---

#### Attribute Types

The type of an attribute defines the way its values for some object are represented, the ways it can be manipulated, and appropriate methods for mining.

##### ***Nominal***

-   <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">categories, states, classes, or “names of things”</mark>
-   also called **categorical**
-   e.g. Hair_color = {auburn, black, blond, brown, grey, red, white}
-   e.g. marital status, occupation, ID numbers, postcodes

##### ***Binary**

-   Nominal attribute with only 2 values  (commonly the values 0 and 1)
-   Symmetric binary: both outcomes equally important
    -   e.g., resides-with-family: yes or no  
        
-   <mark style="background: #ABF7F7A6;">Asymmetric binary: outcomes not equally important</mark>. 
    -   e.g., medical test (positive vs. negative). e.g. attended class (no, yes)
    -   Convention: assign 1 to most important outcome (e.g., HIV positive)

##### ***Ordinal***

-   <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">Values have a meaningful order (ranking) but magnitude between successive values is not known</mark>.
-   e.g. Size = {small, medium, large}, ANU grades, army rankings
-   Commonly used in surveys e.g. {very poor, poor, moderate, good, excellent}
-   Can be derived by discretising numeric quantities into ordinal categories (e.g. ANU marks -> grades, age -> child/adolescent/adult).

##### ***Numeric Interval-Scaled***

-   Could be integer or real 
-   Measured on a scale of equal-sized units
-   Values have order
-   No  true zero-point
-   e.g, temperature in ˚C, calendar dates 
-  <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;"> We can reason about the difference amongst values, but not about the multiples or ratios of values.</mark>
    -   e.g., 20˚C is 10˚C warmer than 10˚C but it is not twice as warm as 10˚C.
-   Are not very common in practice

##### ***Numeric Ratio-Scaled***

-   Could be integer or real
-   <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Inherent zero-point</mark>
-   A ratio scale has all the properties of interval-scaled  attributes  and the additional property of permitting reasoning over multiples of values
-   <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">We can speak of values as being a multiple of another in the same unit of measurement (10 ˚K is twice as hot as 5 ˚K).</mark>
-   We can also reason about the difference between values, as for interval-scaled.
-   e.g., temperature in Kelvin, length, counts, monetary quantities

---

#### Discrete versus Continuous Attributes

Another classification of attributes, more often used in machine learning:

##### ***Discrete***

-   Has only a finite or countably infinite set of values
-   e.g., postcodes, profession, or the set of words in a collection of documents
-   Sometimes, represented as positive integer variables
-   Binary, nominal and ordinal attributes are a special case of discrete attributes

##### ***Continuous***  

-   real numbers as values
-   e.g., temperature, height, weight, circumference  
    
-   In practice, real values can only be measured and represented using a finite number of bits (so in that sense are approximated by discrete values)  
    
-   Typically represented as floating-point variables













