
```assembly
LOARDER_BASE_ADDER equ 0x900 
LOARDER_START_SECTOR equ 0x2   ; define symbolic constant 

SECTION MBR vstart=0x7c00      ; declare section MBR starting 0x7c00
	mov ax,cs
	mov ds,ax
	mov es,ax 
	mov ss,ax
	mov fs,ax
	mov sp,0x7c00              ; set the stack pointer starts ox7c00 
	mov ax,0xb800
	mov gs,ax
	
	
	mov ax,0600h
	mov bx,0700h
	mov cx,0
	mov ds,184fh
	
	int 10h

	mov byte[gs:0x00],'1'        ; store in gs + 0x00
	mov byte[gs:0x01],'0xA4'
	
	
	mov byte[gs:0x02],''
	mov byte[gs:0x03],'0xA4'
	
	mov byte[gs:0x04],'M'
	mov byte[gs:0x05],'0xA4'
	
	
	mov byte[gs:0x06],'B'
	mov byte[gs:0x07],'0xA4'
	
	mov byte[gs:0x08],'R'
	mov byte[gs:0x09],'0xA4'
	
	
	mov eax,LOARDER_START_SECTOR    ;store constant to EAX register
	MOV BX LOARDER_BASE_ADDER
	mov cx,1
	call rd_disk
	
	jmp LOARDER_BASE_ADDER


```







----

It is generally better to load the operating system from the second sector (LBA 1) rather than the first sector (LBA 0) of a disk because the first sector is typically reserved for storing the Master Boot Record (MBR). The MBR contains important information such as the disk's partition table and the location of the boot loader, which is used to load the operating system. Loading the operating system from the second sector allows you to keep the MBR intact, ensuring that the disk remains bootable even if the operating system is overwritten.

The Master Boot Record (MBR) is the first sector of a hard drive. It contains the boot loader code and a table of the partitions on the drive. The MBR is responsible for booting the operating system, it locates the active partition, loads the boot loader and passes control to it. The MBR is a crucial part of the boot process and must be protected from damage or corruption to ensure the stability of the system.

---

Steps in the boot process of an x86-based computer:

1.  Power on: The computer is powered on, and the CPU starts executing code.
    
2.  Initialization of system components: The CPU initializes the memory controller, input/output interfaces, and other system components.
    
3.  BIOS load: The CPU reads the BIOS code from the ROM chip on the motherboard and loads it into memory.
    
4.  BIOS start-up: The BIOS code initializes the system and performs a series of tests to ensure that all components are functioning correctly.
    
5.  Finding the boot device: The BIOS scans for bootable devices, such as hard drives or CD-ROMs, and reads the boot sector from the first one it finds.
    
6.  Loading boot code: The BIOS loads the boot code from the boot sector into memory and transfers control to it.
    
7.  Loading the operating system: The boot code loads the operating system from the boot device into memory and transfers control to it.
    
8.  Operating system start-up: The operating system initializes itself, loads drivers, and starts executing its code.