
We have already talked about the inheritance relationship of generics: `Pair<Integer>` is not a subclass of `Pair<Number>`.

Consider the following set method:

```java
void set(Pair<Integer> p, Integer first, Integer last) {
    p.setFirst(first);
    p.setLast(last);
}
```

Passing in `Pair<Integer>` is allowed, but passing in `Pair<Number>` is not.

In contrast to the extends wildcard, this time, we hope to accept `Pair<Integer>` type, as well as `Pair<Number>`, `Pair<Object>`, because `Number` and `Object` are the superclasses of `Integer`, and `setFirst(Number)` and `setFirst(Object)` actually allow accepting `Integer` type.

We use the super wildcard to rewrite this method:

```java
void set(Pair<? super Integer> p, Integer first, Integer last) {
    p.setFirst(first);
    p.setLast(last);
}
```

Notice that `Pair<? super Integer>` means the method parameter accepts all `Pair` types whose generic type is `Integer` or the superclass of `Integer`.

The following code can be compiled normally:

```java
public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Pair<Number> p1 = new Pair<>(12.3, 4.56);
        Pair<Integer> p2 = new Pair<>(123, 456);
        setSame(p1, 100);
        setSame(p2, 200);
        System.out.println(p1.getFirst() + ", " + p1.getLast());
        System.out.println(p2.getFirst() + ", " + p2.getLast());
    }

    static void setSame(Pair<? super Integer> p, Integer n) {
        p.setFirst(n);
        p.setLast(n);
    }
}

class Pair<T> {
    private T first;
    private T last;

    public Pair(T first, T last) {
        this.first = first;
        this.last = last;
    }

    public T getFirst() {
        return first;
    }

    public T getLast() {
        return last;
    }

    public void setFirst(T first) {
        this.first = first;
    }

    public void setLast(T last) {
        this.last = last;
    }
}
```

Consider the `setFirst()` method of `Pair<? super Integer>`, its method signature is actually:

```java
void setFirst(? super Integer);
```

Therefore, it is safe to pass in the `Integer` type.

Now consider the `getFirst()` method of `Pair<? super Integer>`, its method signature is actually:

```java
? super Integer getFirst();
```

Notice here that we cannot use `Integer` type to receive the return value of `getFirst()`, i.e., the following statement will not compile:

```java
Integer x = p.getFirst();
```

Because if the actual type passed in is `Pair<Number>`, the compiler cannot cast `Number` type to `Integer`.

Note: Although `Number` is an abstract class, and we cannot directly instantiate it. However, even if `Number` were not an abstract class, this would still not compile. Additionally, when passing in `Pair<Object>` type, the compiler cannot cast `Object` type to `Integer`.

The only type that can receive the return value of the `getFirst()` method is `Object` type:

```java
Object obj = p.getFirst();
```

Therefore, using the `<? super Integer>` wildcard indicates:

- Allows calling `set(? super Integer)` method to pass in a reference to `Integer`;
- Does not allow calling `get()` method to obtain a reference to `Integer`.

The only exception is that it can obtain a reference to `Object`: `Object o = p.getFirst()`.

In other words, using the `<? super Integer>` wildcard as a method parameter indicates that the method's internal code can only write, not read.

**Comparison of extends and super Wildcards**

Let's review the extends wildcard again. As method parameters, the difference between `<? extends T>` type and `<? super T>` type is:

- `<? extends T>` allows calling read method `T get()` to obtain a reference to `T`, but does not allow calling write method `set(T)` to pass in a reference to `T` (null is an exception);
- `<? super T>` allows calling write method `set(T)` to pass in a reference to `T`, but does not allow calling read method `T get()` to obtain a reference to `T` (obtaining `Object` is an exception).

One allows reading but not writing, the other allows writing but not reading.

Remember the above conclusion, let's look at the `copy()` method defined in the Java standard library's Collections class:

```java
public class Collections {
    // Copies each element from src to dest:
    public static <T> void copy(List<? super T> dest, List<? extends T> src) {
        for (int i=0; i<src.size(); i++) {
            T t = src.get(i);
            dest.add(t);
        }
    }
}
```

Its purpose is to add each element from one List to another List one by one. Its first parameter is `List<? super T>`, indicating the target List, and the second parameter `List<? extends T>`, indicating the List to be copied. We can simply implement copying with a for loop. In the for loop, we can see that for the variable `src` of type `<? extends T>`, we can safely obtain a reference to type `T`, and for the variable `dest` of type `<? super T>`, we can safely pass in a reference to `T`.

This definition of the `copy()` method perfectly demonstrates the intention of extends and super:

- The `copy()` method internally will not read `dest`, because it cannot call `dest.get()` to obtain a reference to `T`;
- The `copy()` method internally will not modify `src`, because it cannot call `src.add(T)`.

This is implemented by compiler checks. If the method code accidentally modifies `src` or accidentally reads `dest`, it will cause a compile error:

```java
public class Collections {
    // Copies each element from src to dest:
    public static <T> void copy(List<? super T> dest, List<? extends T> src) {
        ...
        T t = dest.get(0); // compile error!
        src.add(t); // compile error!
    }
}
```

Another advantage of this `copy()` method is that it can safely add a `List<Integer>` to a `List<Number>`, but it cannot do the reverse:

```java
// copy List<Integer> to List<Number> ok:
List<Number> numList = ...;
List<Integer> intList = ...;
Collections.copy(numList, intList);

// ERROR: cannot copy List<Number> to List<Integer>:
Collections.copy(intList, numList);
```

And all these are implemented through super and extends wildcards, enforced by compiler checks.
