### Classpath
The classpath is an environment variable used by the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) to specify how it should search for classes.

Since Java is a compiled language, source code files are .java files, while the compiled .class files are the actual bytecode that can be executed by the JVM. Therefore, the JVM needs to know where to look for the corresponding Hello.class file when it needs to load a class like abc.xyz.Hello.

So, the classpath is <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">a collection of directories that tells the JVM where to search for classes</mark>, and its configuration depends on the operating system. For example, on Windows, directories are separated by semicolons (;), and directories with spaces should be enclosed in double quotes (""). It might look like this:

```
C:\work\project1\bin;C:\shared;"D:\My Documents\project1\bin"
```

On Linux, directories are separated by colons (:), like this:

```
/usr/shared:/usr/local/bin:/home/xyz/bin
```

Now, assuming the classpath is set to .;C:\work\project1\bin;C:\shared, when the JVM tries to load the class abc.xyz.Hello, it will search in the following order:

1. `<current directory>\abc\xyz\Hello.class`
2. `C:\work\project1\bin\abc\xyz\Hello.class`
3. `C:\shared\abc\xyz\Hello.class`

Note that the dot (.) represents the current directory. If the JVM finds the corresponding class file in any of these paths, it stops searching further. If it doesn't find the class file in any of the paths, it raises an error.

There are two ways to set the classpath:

1. Set the classpath environment variable in the system environment settings (not recommended).
2. Set the classpath variable when starting the JVM (recommended).

It's strongly discouraged to set the classpath in the system environment variable, as it can pollute the entire system environment. The recommended approach is to set the classpath when starting the JVM by using the -classpath or -cp option, like this:

```bash
java -classpath .;C:\work\project1\bin;C:\shared abc.xyz.Hello
```

Or, you can use the shorthand for -cp:

```bash
java -cp .;C:\work\project1\bin;C:\shared abc.xyz.Hello
```

If you don't set the system environment variable and don't provide the -cp option when starting the JVM, <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">the default classpath is the current directory (.)</mark>:

```bash
java abc.xyz.Hello
```

In most cases, the default current directory (.) is sufficient and you don't need to set a specific classpath.

When running Java programs in an IDE, the IDE automatically sets the classpath to include the bin directory of your project and any imported JAR files.

Usually, in your own class files, you'll be referencing core Java library classes like String and ArrayList. You might wonder how to tell the JVM where to find these classes.

Many articles on "how to set the classpath" will advise you to include the JVM's built-in rt.jar in the classpath. However, in reality, there's no need to tell the JVM how to find core library classes. The JVM knows where its core library classes are located. 

**Do not add any Java core library to the classpath! The JVM doesn't rely on the classpath to load core libraries!**

The better approach is to leave the classpath unset. The default current directory (.) is sufficient for most cases.

Suppose you have a compiled Hello.class file with the package name com.example, and the current directory is C:\work. In this case, the directory structure must look like this:

```
C:\work
└─ com
   └─ example
      └─ Hello.class
```

To run this Hello.class file, you should use the following command in the current directory:

```bash
C:\work> java -cp . com.example.Hello
```

The JVM will search for com/example/Hello.class within the current directory. If the specified .class file doesn't exist, or if the directory structure and package name don't match, it will result in an error.

### **JAR Files:**

If you have many .class files scattered in various directories, it can become challenging to manage them. To simplify this, you can create a JAR (Java Archive) file, which packages a directory structure along with all the files (including .class files and others) into a single compressed file. This makes tasks like backup and distribution much easier.

A JAR file is essentially a compressed ZIP archive, and the JAR file itself acts like a directory. To execute a class from a JAR file, you can include the JAR file in the classpath:

```bash
java -cp ./hello.jar abc.xyz.Hello
```

This way, the JVM will automatically search for the specified class within the hello.jar file.

Since a JAR file is essentially a ZIP file, you can create one by navigating to the correct directory in your file explorer, right-clicking, selecting "Send to," and then choosing "Compressed (zipped) folder." <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">After that, change the file extension from .zip to .jar</mark>, and you've successfully created a JAR file.

---

A JAR (Java Archive) file can also include a special /META-INF/MANIFEST.MF file. MANIFEST.MF is a plain text file that can specify information like the Main-Class and other details. The JVM automatically reads this MANIFEST.MF file, and if a Main-Class is specified, you don't need to specify the class name on the command line; instead, you can use a more convenient command:

```bash
java -jar hello.jar
```

In large-scale projects, it's not feasible to manually write a MANIFEST.MF file and then create a ZIP package manually. The Java community provides a plethora of open-source build tools like Maven, which make it extremely convenient to create JAR files.