In Java development, many developers often find themselves confused by various versions of the JDK (Java Development Kit). In this section, we will provide a detailed explanation of the issues related to the versioning of Java class files generated after compilation.

When we talk about Java 8, Java 11, Java 17, we are referring to the versions of the JDK, which are also versions of the JVM (Java Virtual Machine). More precisely, it refers to the version of the `java.exe` program:

```bash
$ java -version
java version "17" 2021-09-14 LTS
```

Each version of the JVM is capable of executing class files with different versions. For example, Java 11 corresponds to class file version 55, while Java 17 corresponds to class file version 61.

If you compile a Java program with Java 11, the default output class file version will be 55. This class file can be executed on both Java 11 and Java 17 because Java 17 supports class file versions up to 61.

If you compile a Java program with Java 17, the default output class file version will be 61. It can run on Java 17 and Java 18, but it cannot run on <mark style="background: #ABF7F7A6;">Java 11 because Java 11 supports class file versions up to 55</mark>. If you attempt to run it with a JVM lower than Java 17, you will get an `UnsupportedClassVersionError` with an error message similar to:

```bash
java.lang.UnsupportedClassVersionError: Xxx has been compiled by a more recent version of the Java Runtime...
```

Whenever you see an `UnsupportedClassVersionError`, it means that the class file you are trying to load exceeds the capabilities of the JVM. You must use a higher version of the JVM to run it.

To give you an analogy, it's like saving a Word document in Word 2013, which can also be opened in Word 2016. However, if you save the same document in Word 2016, you won't be able to open it in Word 2013.

However, there is an exception. If you save a document in Word 2016 in Word 2013-compatible format, you can open it in the older version (Word 2013), but you must explicitly specify the compatible format when saving.

Similarly, when it comes to JVM class files, you can compile a Java program with Java 17 and specify that the output class file should be compatible with Java 11 (i.e., class version 55). This way, the generated class file can run in environments using Java 11 or higher.

There are two ways to specify the compilation output version:

1. Use the `--release` option in the `javac` command:

   ```bash
   $ javac --release 11 Main.java
   ```

   The `--release 11` option indicates that the source code is compatible with Java 11, and the compiled class file's output version will be Java 11 compatible (class version 55).

2. Use the `--source` option to specify the source code version and the `--target` option to specify the output class version:

   ```bash
   $ javac --source 9 --target 11 Main.java
   ```

   In the above command, when using Java 17's JDK to compile, it treats the source code as Java 9 compatible and generates a class file compatible with Java 11 (class version 55). Note that you can only choose either the `--release` option or the `--source` and `--target` options; you cannot use both simultaneously.

However, specifying a version lower than the current JDK version may lead to potential issues. For example, if you compile `Hello.java` with Java 17 and specify `--source 9` and `--target 11`:

```java
public class Hello {
    public static void hello(String name) {
        System.out.println("hello".indent(4));
    }
}
```

Running `Hello` with a JVM version lower than Java 11 will result in a `LinkageError` because it cannot load the `Hello.class` file. On the other hand, running it with Java 11 will result in a `NoSuchMethodError` because the `String.indent()` method was introduced in Java 12, and Java 11 doesn't have the `indent()` method in its `String` version.

Note: If you use `--release 11`, it will also perform a check during compilation to verify whether the method exists in Java 11.

Therefore, it's advisable that during development, you use the same JDK version for compilation as the version of the JVM you intend to run your code on. Avoid using a higher version of the JDK to compile code that needs to run on an older version of the JVM.

During development, you can have multiple JDK versions installed, and you can switch between them by setting the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable.

Source Code Version:
When writing source code, it's common to specify a source code version. During compilation, if you use `--source` or `--release` to specify the source code version, the compiler will check the syntax based on the specified source version.

For example, using lambda expressions in your source code requires a minimum source code version of 8 for compilation. Similarly, using the `var` keyword requires a source code version of at least 10, and using switch expressions requires at least source code version 12. For versions 12 and 13, you need to enable the `--enable-preview` option.