We know that `.class` files are the smallest executable units seen by the JVM (Java Virtual Machine). In a large program, you need to write many classes and generate a bunch of `.class` files, which can be difficult to manage. Therefore, JAR files serve as containers for class files.

Before Java 9, a large Java program would generate its own JAR file while also referencing third-party JAR files as dependencies. The Java standard library provided by the JVM itself was also stored in the form of a JAR file called `rt.jar`, which was over 60 MB in size.

For your own developed program, in addition to your own `app.jar`, you would also need a bunch of third-party JAR files. When running a Java program, the command line typically looked like this:

```bash
java -cp app.jar:a.jar:b.jar:c.jar com.liaoxuefeng.sample.Main
```

Note: Do not include the JVM's standard library `rt.jar` in the classpath; including it may disrupt the JVM's normal operation. If you forget to include a JAR file that your application needs at runtime, you may get a `ClassNotFoundException`.

<mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">So, JAR files are merely containers for storing classes and do not handle class dependencies.</mark>

Starting from Java 9, the introduction of modules primarily aimed to address the "dependency" problem. If `a.jar` had to depend on another `b.jar` to run, we needed to provide some instructions in `a.jar` so that the program could automatically locate `b.jar` during compilation and runtime. These class containers that carry their own "dependency relationships" are known as modules.

To demonstrate the commitment to Java modularization, starting from Java 9, the existing Java standard library was split from a single massive `rt.jar` into dozens of modules, each identified with a `.jmod` extension. You can find these modules in the `$JAVA_HOME/jmods` directory, for example:

- `java.base.jmod`
- `java.compiler.jmod`
- `java.datatransfer.jmod`
- `java.desktop.jmod`
- ...

Each of these `.jmod` files represents a module, and the module name corresponds to the file name. For instance, the `java.base` module corresponds to the `java.base.jmod` file. The dependencies between modules have been defined in the `module-info.class` file within each module. All modules directly or indirectly depend on the `java.base` module, which itself does not depend on any other module. It can be considered the "root module," much like all classes ultimately inherit from `Object`.

Creating a JAR file is merely a packaging process for a bunch of classes, while creating a module requires not only packaging but also specifying dependencies and can even include binary code (typically JNI extensions). Additionally, modules support multiple versions, meaning that a single module can provide different versions for different JVMs.

**Writing Modules**:
So, how do we write modules? Let's illustrate with a concrete example. First, creating a module is the same as creating a regular Java project. Taking the "oop-module" project as an example, its directory structure looks like this:

```plaintext
oop-module
├── bin
├── build.sh
└── src
    ├── com
    │   └── jasper
    │       └── sample
    │           ├── Greeting.java
    │           └── Main.java
    └── module-info.java
```

In this structure, the "bin" directory stores the compiled class files, the "src" directory contains the source code organized by package name, and it has an additional "module-info.java" file, which is the module descriptor file. In this module, it looks like this:

```java
module hello.world {
	requires java.base; // This can be omitted, as java.base is automatically included
	requires java.xml;
}
```

Here, "module" is a keyword, and "hello.world" is the module name, which follows package naming conventions. Inside the curly braces, "requires xxx;" statements indicate the other modules that this module depends on. Apart from `java.base`, which is automatically included, we have added the `java.xml` module as a dependency.

Once we declare these dependencies in the module, we can use the imported modules. For example, the `Main.java` code looks like this:

```java
package com.jasper.sample;

// We must import java.xml module to use its classes:
import javax.xml.XMLConstants;

public class Main {
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		Greeting g = new Greeting();
		System.out.println(g.hello(XMLConstants.XML_NS_PREFIX));
	}
}
```

If we remove `requires java.xml;` from `module-info.java`, we will get a compilation error. This demonstrates the essential role of modules in declaring dependencies.

Next, let's compile and create a module using the command-line tools provided by the JDK.

First, navigate to the "oop-module" directory, compile all `.java` files in the current directory, and store the compiled files in the "bin" directory using the following command:

```bash
$ javac -d bin src/module-info.java src/com/jasper/sample/*.java
```

If the compilation is successful, the project structure will look like this:

```plaintext
oop-module
├── bin
│   ├── com
│   │   └── jasper
│   │       └── sample
│   │           ├── Greeting.class
│   │           └── Main.class
│   └── module-info.class
└── src
    ├── com
    │   └── jasper
    │       └── sample
    │           ├── Greeting.java
    │           └── Main.java
    └── module-info.java
```

Note that the `module-info.java` from the "src" directory was compiled into `module-info.class` in the "bin" directory.

Next, we need to package all the class files in the "bin" directory into a JAR file. When creating the JAR file, use the `--main-class` parameter to specify the class that contains the `main` method. This will allow the JAR file to locate the class with the `main` method:

```bash
$ jar --create --file hello.jar --main-class com.jasper.sample.Main -C bin .
```

Now, we have the "hello.jar" JAR file in the current directory. It can be run just like a regular JAR file using the `java -jar hello.jar` command. However, our goal is to create a module, so let's continue to use the JDK's built-in `jmod` command to convert a JAR file into a module:

```bash
$ jmod create --class-path hello.jar hello.jmod
```

Now, in the current directory, we have the "hello.jmod" module file, which is the module that we've been working towards!

Running a Module:
To run a JAR, we use the `java -jar xxx.jar` command. To run a module, we only need to specify the module name. Let's try it:

```bash
$ java --module-path hello.jmod --module hello.world
```

The result is an error:

```plaintext
Error occurred during initialization of boot layer
java.lang.module.FindException: JMOD format not supported at execution time: hello.jmod
```

The reason is that `.jmod` files cannot be placed in the `--module-path`. If we replace it with `.jar`, there won't be any issues:

```bash
$ java --module-path hello.jar --module hello.world
Hello, xml!
```

So, what is the purpose of the `hello.jmod` that we created with so much effort? The answer is that we can use it to package a JRE (Java Runtime Environment).

Packaging a JRE:
As mentioned earlier, to support modularity, Java 9 initially split its massive `rt.jar` into several modules. This was because, when running a Java program, we don't actually use all the JDK modules. Unneeded modules can be removed to make the JRE lighter. How do we trim down a JRE? Instead of deleting modules from the system-installed JRE, we "copy" a JRE while including only the modules used by our program. JDK provides the `jlink` command to achieve this. The command looks like this:

```bash
$ jlink --module-path hello.jmod --add-modules java.base,java.xml,hello.world --output jre/
```

In the command, we specify our own `hello.jmod` module in the `--module-path`, list the modules our program uses with `--add-modules` (comma-separated), and specify the output directory with `--output`.

Now, in the current directory, we can find the "jre" directory, which is a complete JRE that includes our own "hello.jmod" module. You can try running this JRE directly:

```bash
$ jre/bin/java --module hello.world
Hello, xml!
```

To distribute your Java application, you can simply package this "jre" directory and send it to others. They can run the provided command without needing to download and install the JDK, or worry about configuring your custom modules. This greatly simplifies the distribution and deployment process.

Access Control:
Previously, we mentioned that Java class access control includes `public`, `protected`, `private`, and the default package-private access levels. With the introduction of modules, there are some adjustments to these access control rules.

Specifically, these class access permissions are only effective within a module. Between modules, for example, if module `a` wants to access a class in module `b`, a necessary condition is that module `b` must explicitly export the package that contains the class.

Here's an example: In our module `hello.world`, we used a class `javax.xml.XMLConstants` from module `java.xml`. We were able to use this class directly because the `module-info.java` of module `java.xml` declared several exports:

```java
module java.xml {
    exports java.xml;
    exports javax.xml.catalog;
    exports javax.xml.datatype;
    ...
}
```

Only the packages it declared as exports are allowed to be accessed by external code. In other words, if external code wants to access the `com.jasper.sample.Greeting` class in our `hello.world` module, we must export it:

```java
module hello.world {
    exports com.jasper.sample;

    requires java.base;
	requires java.xml;
}
```

Therefore, modules further isolate the access permissions of code.