### Abstract Classes and Methods

In Java, when a class has methods that are declared without any implementation, these methods are known as abstract methods. Abstract methods are marked with the `abstract` keyword. <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">A class containing abstract methods must also be declared as abstract</mark>.

#### Example of Abstract Class and Method

```java
abstract class Person {
    public abstract void run();
}
```

- `Person` class is an abstract class because it contains the abstract method `run()`.
- Abstract classes cannot be instantiated directly, i.e., you cannot create an object of an abstract class using the `new` keyword.

#### Purpose of Abstract Classes

Abstract classes are <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">designed for inheritance</mark> and they enforce certain methods to <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">be implemented in the subclasses</mark>.

#### Implementing Abstract Methods in Subclasses

Any concrete subclass of an abstract class must provide implementations for the abstract methods:

```java
class Student extends Person {
    @Override
    public void run() {
        System.out.println("Student.run");
    }
}
```

- Here, `Student` is a concrete class that extends the abstract class `Person`.
- It provides an implementation for the abstract method `run()`.

### Programming to an Abstraction

Programming to an abstraction involves using abstract classes or interfaces to refer to specific instances of concrete classes. This approach focuses on what operations can be performed rather than how these operations are implemented in different classes.

#### Advantages

- It provides flexibility as the specific instance can be of any subclass that extends the abstract class.
- The code is more maintainable and scalable as new subclasses can be added without changing the existing code that uses the abstract class.

#### Tip

In Java, a class can only inherit from one parent class, which is determined by the design of the Java language. This is because Java follows the principle of single inheritance, that is, <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">a class can only inherit from one parent class</mark>, which ensures that the inheritance relationship between classes is clearer and simpler. At the same time, in order to avoid the complexity and conflicts that multiple inheritance may bring, Java has chosen not to support multiple inheritance.
#### Example of Polymorphism with Abstract Classes

```java
Person s = new Student();
Person t = new Teacher();
s.run();
t.run();
```

- Here, `s` and `t` are references of type `Person`, the abstract class.
- They can point to instances of any class that extends `Person`.
- This demonstrates polymorphism where the actual method implementation that gets invoked depends on the runtime type of the object.
