In Java, we often see modifiers like public, protected, and private. In Java, these modifiers are used to restrict the scope of access.

**public:**
- Classes and interfaces defined as public can be accessed by any other class.
```java
package abc;

public class Hello {
    public void hi() {
    }
}
```
The class `Hello` above is public, so it can be accessed by classes from other packages as well.
```java
package xyz;

class Main {
    void foo() {
        // Main can access Hello
        Hello h = new Hello();
    }
}
```
Fields and methods declared as public can also be accessed by other classes, provided they have access to the class itself.
```java
package abc;

public class Hello {
    public void hi() {
    }
}
```
The `hi()` method above is public and can be called by other classes, given that they can access the `Hello` class.
```java
package xyz;

class Main {
    void foo() {
        Hello h = new Hello();
        h.hi();
    }
}
```

**private:**
- Fields and methods declared as private cannot be accessed by other classes.
```java
package abc;

public class Hello {
    // Cannot be called by other classes:
    private void hi() {
    }

    public void hello() {
        this.hi();
    }
}
```
Private access is limited to the class itself and is not dependent on the order of method declarations. It is recommended to place private methods towards the end of the class to prioritize the visibility of public methods.

**protected:**
- Protected access applies to inheritance relationships. Fields and methods declared as protected can be accessed by subclasses and their subclasses.
```java
package abc;

public class Hello {
    // Protected method:
    protected void hi() {
    }
}
```
The protected method above can be accessed by inheriting classes.
```java
package xyz;

class Main extends Hello {
    void foo() {
        // Can access the protected method:
        hi();
    }
}
```

**package:**
- Package scope allows access to classes, fields, and methods within the same package without the need for public, protected, or private modifiers.
```java
package abc;

class Hello {
    // Package-scoped method:
    void hi() {
    }
}
```
As long as classes are in the same package, they can access package-scoped classes, fields, and methods.
```java
package abc;

class Main {
    void foo() {
        // Can access package-scoped class:
        Hello h = new Hello();
        // Can call package-scoped method:
        h.hi();
    }
}
```

**Local Variables:**
- Variables defined inside a method are called local variables, and their scope is limited to the method block.
```java
package abc;

public class Hello {
    void hi(String name) { // ①
        String s = name.toLowerCase(); // ②
        int len = s.length(); // ③
        if (len < 10) { // ④
            int p = 10 - len; // ⑤
            for (int i=0; i<10; i++) { // ⑥
                System.out.println(); // ⑦
            } // ⑧
        } // ⑨
    } // ⑩
}
```
The scope of local variables is limited to their declaration location within the method.

**final:**
- The `final` modifier is used to prevent classes from being inherited, methods from being overridden, fields from being reassigned, or local variables from being re-assigned.

Best Practices:
- If you're not sure whether to use public, consider using more restrictive access modifiers to limit exposure of fields and methods.
- Defining methods with package scope can be helpful for testing, as test classes can access package-scoped methods if they are in the same package.
- A .java file can only contain one public class, but it can include multiple non-public classes.