
### Preliminary Definitions

- Item: an atomic piece of nominal data, e.g. apple, orange, or banana.
- Itemset: A set of one or more items, denoted by ${\cal I} = \{I_1, I_2,..I_m\}$, e.g. ${\cal I}=\{apple, orange, banana\}$.
- k-itemset: An itemset of cardinality k, where k is a positive integer. Denoted by $X = \{x_{1},...,x_{k}\}$, e.g. $\{apple, orange\}$ is a 2-itemset.
- Transaction: A non-empty itemset with a unique identifier in a group called a database. Denoted by $T\in D$, where $D$ is a set of task-relevant transactions (or a dataset or a database), e.g. $D = \{T_1, T_2\}$, $T_1=\{apple, orange\}$, $T_2=\{apple, banana, orange\}$. 

While each transaction, $T$, has a unique identifier, say $TID$, this is not always explicit in the transaction but is needed to ensure that multiple transactions containing the same items are distinguished when required. Alternatively, a database could be a bag of transactions, but more usually it is assumed to be a set, with multiple transactions containing the same itemset assumed to be distinguished via a $TID$.

- Support Count: The number of transactions that contain an itemset, denoted by $|T, \text{such that } A\subseteq T \text{ and } T\in D|$. Also called occurrence frequency, frequency, absolute support, and count, e.g. the support count of $\{apple\}$ is 2 in dataset $D=\{\{apple\}, \{apple, orange\}, \{banana, orange\}\}$.
- Support: The proportion of transactions that contain an itemset, denoted by $\text{support}(A) = \frac{\text{support count of }A \text{ in } D}{\text{cardinality of }D}$. Also called relative support and sometimes frequency, e.g. the support of $\{apple\}$ in dataset $D$ above is $2/3$.
- Frequent Itemset: An itemset with support greater than or equal to a minimum support threshold, denoted by $\text{support}(A)\geq \text{min\_sup}$, where $\text{min\_sup}$ is a user-defined, application-specific parameter.
- Association Rule: An implication of the form $A \Longrightarrow B$, where $A\subset {\cal I}$, $B\subset {\cal I}$, $A\neq \emptyset$, $B\neq \emptyset$, and $A\cap B = \emptyset$.
- Rule Support: The proportion of transactions that contain every one of both $A$'s and $B$'s items. Denoted by $P(A\cup B)$, it measures the significance of the association rule in the dataset.
- Confidence: The conditional probability of $B$ given $A$, denoted by $P(B\vert A)$. Also called the support ratio, it is the support count of $A\cup B$ in $D$ as a proportion of the support count of $A$ in $D$.
- Strong Rule: An association rule $A \Longrightarrow B$ is strong when $A\cup B$ is frequent
