
### Basic Commands

1. **SET key value:** This command sets the value at the specified key.
    
    Example: `SET mykey "Hello"`
    
2. **GET key:** This command gets the value at the specified key.
    
    Example: `GET mykey`
    
3. **DEL key:** This command deletes the value at the specified key.
    
    Example: `DEL mykey`
    
4. **EXISTS key:** This command checks if the specified key exists.
    
    Example: `EXISTS mykey`
    
5. **EXPIRE key seconds:** This command sets a key to expire after a certain number of seconds.
    
    Example: `EXPIRE mykey 120`
    
6. **TTL key:** This command gets the time to live (in seconds) of a key that has an expire set.
    
    Example: `TTL mykey`
    
7. **PERSIST key:** This command removes the expiration from a key.
    
    Example: `PERSIST mykey`
    
8. **INCR key:** This command increments the integer value of a key by one.
    
    Example: `INCR mycounter`
    
9. **DECR key:** This command decrements the integer value of a key by one.
    
    Example: `DECR mycounter`
    
10. **LPUSH key value:** This command prepends a value to a list.
    
    Example: `LPUSH mylist "World"`
    
11. **RPUSH key value:** This command appends a value to a list.
    
    Example: `RPUSH mylist "Hello"`
    
12. **LRANGE key start stop:** This command gets a range of elements from a list.
    
    Example: `LRANGE mylist 0 -1`
    
13. **LPOP key:** This command removes and gets the first element in a list.
    
    Example: `LPOP mylist`
    
14. **RPOP key:** This command removes and gets the last element in a list.
    
    Example: `RPOP mylist`
    
15. **SADD key member:** This command adds a member to a set.
    
    Example: `SADD myset "Hello"`


---

### Additions

#### Key Pattern Strategy

"multi-layer" or "nested" keys by using a colon (:) in your key names. It's a popular way to namespace your keys and create a hierarchy-like structure.

```
SET user:1:name "John"
SET user:1:email "john@example.com"
SET user:1:location "USA"
```
