### Integer Types

Fixed-length integers, which can be either signed or unsigned.

- **Signed Integer Range:** $$2^{n}-1 \sim 2^{n-1} - 1$$
    - Types: `Int8`, `Int16`, `Int32`, `Int64`
- **Unsigned Integer Range:** $$0 \sim 2^{n} - 1$$
    - Types: `UInt8`, `UInt16`, `UInt32`, `UInt64`

### Floating-Point Numbers

- Types: `Float32`, `Float64`
- **Precision Loss Issue in Floating-Point Calculations:** Example:
    
    ```sql
    SELECT 1.0 - 0.9;
    ```
    
    Result:
    
    ```
    ┌──────minus(1., 0.9)─┐
    │ 0.09999999999999998 │
    └─────────────────────┘
    ```   


### Boolean Type

ClickHouse does not have a dedicated Boolean type. Use `UInt8` instead, with values restricted to `0` (false) or `1` (true).

### Decimal Type

- `Decimal32(s)` is equivalent to `Decimal(9-s, s)`
- `Decimal64(s)` is equivalent to `Decimal(18-s, s)`
- `Decimal128(s)` is equivalent to `Decimal(38-s, s)`


### String Types

- `String`: Strings of arbitrary length. Can include any byte sequence, including null bytes.
- `FixedString(N)`: Fixed-length strings of size NN, where NN must be a positive integer. Strings shorter than NN are padded with null bytes, and strings longer than NN cause an error.


### Enum Types

Enums store mappings between **`'string' = integer`**.

- `Enum8`: Maps `'string'` to `Int8`
- `Enum16`: Maps `'string'` to `Int16`

**Example of Enum8 Creation:**

```sql
CREATE TABLE t_enum (
    x Enum8('hello' = 1, 'world' = 2)
) ENGINE = TinyLog;
```

- The column `x` can only store values `'hello'` or `'world'`.

**Inserting Values:**

```sql
INSERT INTO t_enum VALUES ('hello'), ('world');
```

**Invalid Value Error:**

```sql
INSERT INTO t_enum VALUES ('a');
-- Throws an exception.
```

**Casting Enum to Integer:**

```sql
SELECT CAST(x, 'Int8') FROM t_enum;
```

### Date and Time Types

- **Date:** Accepts `YYYY-MM-DD`, e.g., `2019-12-16`
    
- **Datetime:** Accepts `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS`, e.g., `2019-12-16 20:50:10`
    
- **Datetime64:** Accepts `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS.sss`, e.g., `2019-12-16 20:50:10.66`
    
- The `Date` type uses 2 bytes to store values representing days since `1970-01-01`.
    

### Array

- `Array(T)`: Arrays consisting of elements of type TT.
- TT can be any type, including arrays. However, multidimensional arrays are not recommended due to limited support in ClickHouse (e.g., cannot store multidimensional arrays in `MergeTree` tables).

**Creating Arrays:**

1. Using the `array` function:
    
    ```sql
    SELECT array(1, 2) AS x, toTypeName(x);
    ```
    
2. Using square brackets:
    
    ```sql
    SELECT [1, 2] AS x, toTypeName(x);
    ```