
<span style="color:yellow">Introduction:</span>

**First In, First Out (FIFO)**: 
First In, First Out (FIFO) scheduling or sometimes First Come, First Served (FCFS).

Convoy effect: 
a number of relatively-short potential consumers of a resource get queued behind a heavyweight resource consumer.

<br/>

Optimizes turnaround time:
- Shortest Job First (SJF)
- Shortest Time-to-Completion First (STCF)

Optimizes response time
- Round Robin

-----
<span style="color:yellow">The Multi-Level Feedback Queue:</span>

Basic Rules:
- If Priority(A) > Priority(B), A runs (B doesn’t).
- If Priority(A) = Priority(B), A & B run in RR.
- When a job enters the system, it is placed at the highest priority (the topmost queue).
- After some time period S, move all the jobs in the system to the topmost queue.
- After some time period S, move all the jobs in the system to the topmost queue.

<span style="color:yellow">Multiprocessor Scheduling:</span>
Difference between single-CPU hardware and multi-CPU hardware centers around the use of hardware caches, and exactly how data is shared across multiple processors.

Caches are small, fast memories that (in general) hold copies of popular data that is found in the main memory of the system. Main memory, in contrast, holds all of the data, but access to this larger memory is slower. By keeping frequently accessed data in a cache, the system can make the large, slow memory appear to be a fast one.

Caches are thus based on the notion of locality, of which there are two kinds: temporal locality and spatial locality. The idea behind temporal locality is that when a piece of data is accessed, it is likely to be accessed again in the near future; imagine variables or even instructions themselves being accessed over and over again in a loop. The idea behind spatial locality is that if a program accesses a data item at address x, it is likely to access data items near x as well.

