
### Linked Open data

•Web of data where web content is <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">processed by machines, without direct human readers</mark>, but not a separate Web.

•The web as a huge, dynamic, evolving database of facts, rather than pages, that can be interpreted and presented in many ways (mashups).

•Fundamental importance of _ontologies_ to describe the fact that is the data.

#### Semantics

- RDF(S)  emphasises labelled links as the source of meaning: essentially a graph model either stored locally in a triple store or distributed as linked open data. A label (that is a URI) uniquely identifies a concept and reuse of the label implies the same meaning.

- OWL adds emphasis on inference as the source of meaning: a label also refers to a package of logical axioms with a proof theory over a model-theoretic semantics.

- Mostly, the two notions of meaning coincide.

#### Components

- Identity: things be referred to

- Relationships: things be connected to/ described by other things. This is where the notion of a _graph_ comes from.

- Inference: general statements about things can be applied to particular things and don’t need to be restated every time. This is  how _knowledge_ arises.

- Encoding: serialisation in RDF 1.1: Turtle, RDF/XML, N-Triples, N-Quads, TriG, JSON-LD

- Open World Assumption: All information to hand is always assumed to be only partial, i.e. from the absence of a statement alone, a deductive reasoner cannot (and must not) infer that the statement is false.





