Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the Web and 2016 Turing Award winner,  has said that he always wanted the Web to be something beyond human-readable documents.  In his 2009 TED talk _[The Next Web],_ he asks people to put `data` on the Web.  

He describes _linked data_ as using http names no longer just for documents but also for `real world things`  The technical name for these _http names_ to which he refers is (abbreviated) `URI`.  When you resolve one of those http names you get  `important information back`.   

He emphasises the power of explicit _relationships_ allowing computational follow-the-links, like in old-fashioned hypertext. In the semantic web standards stack, relationships are modelled by `predicates`.

> What is the _open world_ assumption?

```
That you cannot infer the negative of some statement from the absence of the positive form.
```

> What does the following RDF say? Check each statement that the Turtle expression includes.

@prefix rdf: <http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#> .  
@prefix rdfs: <http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#> .  
@prefix : <http://example.org/mine#> .  
@prefix xsd: <http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#> .  
:hexagon a Shape ;  
          rdfs:comment “six sided polygon” ;  
           :sides “7”^^xsd:integer ;  
           :canBeDrawnWith [ :has :pencil ] .  

```
The hexagon is a Shape
The hexagon has the comment  "six sided polygon", 
The hexagon has 7 sides, 
The hexagon can be drawn with something and that thing has a pencil, 
(In Turtle: ) :hexagon rdf:type :Shape
```

Consider the following OWL ontology of 3 classes and one object property.  

[N.B. To interpret the  compact notation below, consider, for example, that the first line below could be written as three Turtle triples after any prefix declarations as   "_:Alex  a :Person ._   _:Sandy  a :Person ._ _:Russell  a :Person ._ "]  

Person: { Alex, Sandy, Russell }   

Student: { Alex, Sandy, Peta }

Subject: { AI, DB, CM, SE }

Likes: { (Alex, AI), (Sandy, SE) }

> Enumerate all the **Individuals** in this ontology.

```
Alex, Sandy, Russell, Peta, AI, DB, CM, SE
```

> Which individuals are necessarily in the domain and range of the Likes property?

```
domain: {Alex, Sandy}, range: { AI, SE }
```

> What are some distinctive features of WikiData  as a knowledge graph exemplar, as compared to  relational database technology?

- It is designed for data on the Web, first., 
- It uses a graph data model, emphasising  relations as links  between entities, 
- Entities in a Knowledge Graph are subjects or objects of an RDF triple, with a  named predicate (or property) relating them, 
- Knowledge Graphs can be readily inter-connected with other independently-developed Knowledge Graphs, 
- Wkidata contains more than 80 million nodes connected by more than a billion edges
