### Borrowing and References

- Borrowing <mark style="background: #ABF7F7A6;">allows multiple references (borrowers) to access a value without taking ownership</mark>.
- Borrowing is used to enable temporary and shared access to a value while retaining the original owner's control.
- References are created using the `&` symbol, followed by the borrowed value's type. For example, `&x` creates an immutable reference to `x`.

### Mutable Borrowing and the Borrowing Rules

- Mutable borrowing allows a single mutable reference to modify a value while preventing other references from reading or writing to it.
- Mutable references are created using the `&mut` keywords. For example, `&mut x` creates a mutable reference to `x`.
- Rust enforces strict borrowing rules:
    - Only one mutable reference (`&mut`) is allowed for a value in a particular scope.
    - Multiple immutable references (`&`) are allowed for a value in the same scope.
    - Borrowing rules ensure that there are no data races or concurrent mutable accesses to a value.

### Functions

- When values are passed to functions, ownership can be transferred to the function, and the original owner can no longer access the value.
- Functions can return ownership to the caller by returning the value as the result of the function.

### Structs

- Ownership can also be applied to struct types in Rust.
- Structs can own other values, such as other structs or primitive types, enforcing ownership rules within the struct's scope.

```rust
fn main() {

    let mut s1: String = String::from("hello");

  
    let len: usize = calculate_length(&s1);
    println!("The length of '{}' is {}.", s1, len);


    let len1: usize = calculate_length1(&mut s1);
    println!("The length of '{}' is {}.", s1, len1);
  

    // Reference rules
    // 1. At any given time, you can have either one mutable reference or any number of immutable references.
    // 2. References must always be valid.
}

  

fn calculate_length(s: &String) -> usize {
    s.len()
}

  

fn calculate_length1(s: &mut String) -> usize {
    s.push_str("world");
    s.len()
}
```