You are given an integer array `height` of length `n`. There are `n` vertical lines drawn such that the two endpoints of the `ith` line are `(i, 0)` and `(i, height[i])`.

Find two lines that together with the x-axis form a container, such that the container contains the most water.

Return _the maximum amount of water a container can store_.

Example1:
**Input:** height = [1,8,6,2,5,4,8,3,7]
**Output:** 49

Example2:
**Input:** height = [1,1]
**Output:** 1

----
This is an interesting question as obviously you can simply use brute force to sovle this problems.
```python
class Solution:
    def maxArea(self, height: List[int]) -> int:
        res = 0
        n = len(height)
        for i in range(n):
            temp = 0
            for j in range(i+1,n):
                t = (j-i)*min(height[i],height[j])
                res = max(res,t)
        return res
```

**Complexity Analysis**:
-   Time complexity: O(n^2). 
-   Space complexity: O(1). Constant extra space is used.

This does not pass all test as the it could more efficient by using two-pointers. 

<br/>

Two Pointer Approach

The volume of the container is computed as S(i,j)=(j−i)min(ai,aj)S(i,j)=(j−i)min(ai,aj). We put the left pointer at the first wall and put the right pointer at the last wall respectively. In each step, if the left wall is shorter than the right wall, we move the left pointer right by one, and similarly, if the right wall is shorter than the left wall, we move the right pointer left by one, until the left wall meets the right wall. In each step, we also compute the volume of the container, keep the maximum volume and optionally the corresponding container wall indices.

```python
class Solution:
    def maxArea(self, height: List[int]) -> int:
        
        res,i,j = 0,0,len(height)-1
        while i<j:
            res = max(res,(j-i)*(min(height[j],height[i])))
            if height[i]<=height[j]:
                i+=1
            else:
                j-=1
        return res
```

 This brings us to a new question as the proof for the approach is not that much easy and intuitive.


**Complexity Analysis**

-   Time complexity: O(n). Single pass.
    
-   Space complexity: O(1). Constant space is used.





