
### Basic

#### Strings
Strings are the simplest data type in Redis and are binary safe. This means they can contain any kind of data, such as a JPEG image or a serialized Ruby object. A string value can be at max 512 Megabytes in length.

```
SET mykey "Hello"
GET mykey
```

#### Lists
Lists are collections of string elements sorted according to the order of insertion. They are implemented as linked lists which allows for fast insertions and deletions at both ends of the list.

```
LPUSH mylist "world" 
LPUSH mylist "Hello"
LRANGE mylist 0 -1
```

#### Sets
Sets are an unordered collection of strings. The primary features of sets are the ability to add, remove, and test for the existence of members in O(1) (constant time regardless of the number of elements contained inside the Set).

```
SADD myset "Hello"
SADD myset "World"
SMEMBERS myset
```

#### Sorted Sets (ZSets)

Just like Sets but every string element is associated with a floating number value called a score. The elements are sorted by the score values.

```
ZADD myzset 0 "hello"
ZADD myzset 1 "world"
ZRANGE myzset 0 -1 WITHSCORES
```

#### Hashes
Hashes are maps composed of fields associated with values. Both the field and the value are strings. This makes them the perfect data type to represent objects.

```
HSET myhash field1 "Hello"
HGET myhash field1
```


### Special

#### Bitmaps
Redis also supports Bitmaps, which are not distinct data types, but are used as a set of bit-oriented operations defined on the String type.

```
SETBIT mykey 7 1
GETBIT mykey 7
```

#### HyperLogLogs
Redis HyperLogLogs is a probabilistic data structure which is used to estimate the cardinality of a set.

```
PFADD hll a b c d
PFCOUNT hll
```

#### Geo
Redis Geo is a set of Redis commands that allow you to store and query data in relation to geographical spatial coordinates (longitude, latitude). Geo commands allow you to store GeoSpatial data (longitude, latitude, name), and query that data in a radius, finding all the elements within a given distance from a specified point.

```
GEOADD Sicily 13.361389 38.115556 "Palermo" 15.087269 37.502669 "Catania"
GEODIST Sicily Palermo Catania
```


### Check details of Data type
- use `help @[data type]`
- use `help @generic` to see the general commands for all