### background()
- The `background()` function sets the <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">background color for the canvas</mark>. It is typically called in the `setup()` function to set the initial background color, but it can also be used within the `draw()` function to change the background color dynamically during the animation.
- The version of `background()` with one parameter interprets the value one of four ways. If the <mark style="background: #ABF7F7A6;">parameter is a number, it's interpreted as a grayscale value</mark>. If the parameter is <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">a string, it's interpreted as a CSS color string</mark>. RGB, RGBA, HSL, HSLA, hex, and named color strings are supported. If the parameter is a [p5.Color](https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5.Color) object, it will be used as the <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">background color</mark>. If the parameter is a [p5.Image](https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5.Image) object, it will be used as the <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">background image</mark>.

```js
// A grayscale integer value.
background(51);
describe('A canvas with a dark charcoal gray background.');
```

```js
// A CSS named color.
background('red');
describe('A canvas with a red background.');
```

- The version of `background()` with two parameters interprets the first one as a grayscale value. The <mark style="background: #ABF7F7A6;">second parameter sets the alpha (transparency) value</mark>.

```js
// A grayscale integer value and an alpha value.
background(51, 0.4);
describe('A canvas with a transparent gray background.');
```

- The version of `background()` with <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">three parameters interprets them as RGB, HSB, or HSL colors</mark>, depending on the current [colorMode()](https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/colorMode). By default, colors are specified in RGB values. Calling background(255, 204, 0) sets the background a bright yellow color.

```js
// R, G & B integer values.
background(255, 204, 0);
describe('A canvas with a yellow background.');
```

```js
// H, S & B integer values.
colorMode(HSB);
background(255, 204, 100);
describe('A canvas with a royal blue background.');
```

[More Reference](https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/background)

---
### clear()
- The `clear()` function clears the content of the canvas, effectively resetting it to a transparent state. It is commonly used in combination with the `background()` function to redraw the canvas each frame when creating animations.
- This function is often used at the beginning of the `draw()` loop to clear the previous frame before drawing the updated frame.
- doesn't clear objects created by `createX()` functions such as [createGraphics()](https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/createGraphics), [createVideo()](https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/createVideo), and [createImg()](https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/createImg).

---
### colorMode()
- The `colorMode()` function<mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;"> sets the color representation mode</mark> used for specifying colors in your sketch. It allows you to define colors using different color models such as RGB, HSB, or HSL.
- The function takes one or four arguments. The first argument sets the color mode (either RGB, HSB, or HSL), and the following arguments define the range for each component (e.g., 0 to 255 for RGB or 0 to 360 for HSB hue).

---
### fill()
- The `fill()` function sets the color used to fill shapes such as rectangles, ellipses, and other geometrical figures drawn using p5.js. When you draw a shape after calling `fill()`, the shape will be filled with the specified color.
- The version of `fill()` with one parameter interprets the value one of three ways. If the <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">parameter is a number, it's interpreted as a grayscale value</mark>. If the parameter is <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">a string, it's interpreted as a CSS color string</mark>. A [p5.Color](https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5.Color) object can also be provided to set the fill color.
- The version of `fill()` with three parameters interprets them as RGB, HSB, or HSL colors, depending on the current [colorMode()](https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/colorMode). The default color space is RGB, with each value in the range from 0 to 255.

```js
// R, G & B integer values.
fill(255, 204, 0);
square(20, 20, 60);
describe('A yellow square with a black outline.');
```

### noFill()
- The `noFill()` function turns off filling for shapes, making them transparent. When you draw a shape after calling `noFill()`, the shape will be outlined but not filled with any color.
- This function is useful when you want to <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">draw only the stroke of a shape without filling it</mark>.

```js
function setup() {
  createCanvas(400, 400);
  fill(255, 0, 0); // Sets the fill color to red
  rect(100, 100, 50, 50); // Draws a red rectangle in the setup() function
}

function draw() {
  fill(0,255,0)
  rect(200, 300, 50, 50); 
  
  noFill()
  rect(100, 300, 50, 50); 
}
```

### noStroke()
- The `noStroke()` function turns off the stroke (outline) for shapes, making them without any visible border. Shapes drawn after calling `noStroke()` will not have any outlines.
- This function is often used when you want to draw shapes without visible borders.

```js
function setup() {
  createCanvas(800, 600);
  fill(255, 255, 0); // Sets the fill color to blue
  noStroke();
  rect(300, 300, 50, 50); // Draws a blue rectangle with no stroke at position (300, 300)
}
```

### stroke()

- The `stroke()` function sets the color used to draw the outline (stroke) of shapes. It is used in combination with the `fill()` function to define the stroke color.
- The version of `stroke()` with one parameter interprets the value one of three ways. If the parameter is a number, it's interpreted as a grayscale value. If the parameter is a string, it's interpreted as a CSS color string. A [p5.Color](https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5.Color) object can also be provided to set the stroke color.

```js
function setup() {
  createCanvas(800, 600);
  stroke(255, 0, 0); // Sets the stroke color to red
  fill(0, 255, 0); // Sets the fill color to green
  ellipse(400, 400, 100, 100); // Draws a green circle with a red outline at position (400, 400)
}
```

### **erase()** and **noErase()**

- The `erase()` function is used in combination with other drawing functions to erase shapes or parts of the canvas, creating a transparent effect. When you draw a shape after calling `erase()`, it acts like an eraser, making the drawn area transparent.
- The `noErase()` function is used to stop the erasing effect and return to the regular drawing mode.
- These functions are often used when you want to create cut-out effects or implement interactive elements in your sketch.

```js
function setup() {
  createCanvas(800, 600);
  background(220); // Sets the background color to a light gray

  fill(255, 0, 0); // Sets the fill color to red
  noStroke();
  ellipse(400, 300, 100, 100); // Draws a red circle at position (400, 300)

  erase(); // Start erasing mode
  ellipse(400, 300, 50, 50); // Erases a smaller circle inside the red circle
  noErase(); // Stop erasing mode
}
```


