
Input/output (I/O) operations are an essential aspect of any programming language, and Java is no exception. Java provides a rich set of classes and methods for performing I/O operations on various devices, such as files, sockets, and streams. This module will introduce you to the basic concepts of I/O in Java and cover the use of some commonly used I/O classes.

## Basic Concepts of I/O in Java

I/O in Java involves the use of streams, which are channels for reading and writing data to various devices. A stream can be thought of as a sequence of bytes or characters that can be read or written in a sequential manner. In Java, streams are represented by the classes InputStream and OutputStream for binary I/O, and Reader and Writer for text I/O.

## Reading and Writing Data using InputStream and OutputStream

Java's InputStream and OutputStream classes provide methods for reading and writing binary data from and to various devices. To read data from a file, for example, you can use the FileInputStream class, which extends InputStream. Similarly, to write data to a file, you can use the FileOutputStream class, which extends OutputStream.

Here is an example of using FileInputStream and FileOutputStream to copy the contents of one file to another:

```java
try (FileInputStream in = new FileInputStream("input.txt");
     FileOutputStream out = new FileOutputStream("output.txt")) {
    byte[] buffer = new byte[1024];
    int bytesRead;
    while ((bytesRead = in.read(buffer)) != -1) {
        out.write(buffer, 0, bytesRead);
    }
} catch (IOException e) {
    e.printStackTrace();
}
```

In this example, we use a try-with-resources block to automatically close the input and output streams after the operation is complete. We also use a buffer to read and write data in chunks of 1024 bytes.

## Efficient Text I/O using BufferedReader and BufferedWriter

Java's BufferedReader and BufferedWriter classes provide efficient text I/O by buffering data in memory before writing it to the device. This can significantly improve performance when reading or writing large amounts of text.

Here is an example of using BufferedReader and BufferedWriter to read and write text data:

```java
try (BufferedReader reader = new BufferedReader(new FileReader("input.txt"));
     BufferedWriter writer = new BufferedWriter(new FileWriter("output.txt"))) {
    String line;
    while ((line = reader.readLine()) != null) {
        writer.write(line);
        writer.newLine();
    }
} catch (IOException e) {
    e.printStackTrace();
}
```

In this example, we use BufferedReader to read text data from a file and BufferedWriter to write the data to another file. We also use the `readLine()` method to read data line by line, and the `newLine()` method to write each line on a new line in the output file.

These are just a few examples of the many capabilities of Java's I/O classes. With a solid understanding of these concepts, you can perform various I/O operations in your Java applications.