
## Character-based I/O

Java's Reader and Writer classes are used for character-based I/O. The classes are designed to handle Unicode characters, and provide support for reading and writing characters from/to files.

### Reader and Writer classes

-   `Reader` and `Writer` classes are used for character-based I/O in Java.
-   `Reader` class is the abstract base class for all character input streams.
-   `Writer` class is the abstract base class for all character output streams.

### Differences between binary and character-based I/O

-   Binary I/O deals with raw bytes, while character-based I/O deals with characters.
-   Character-based I/O supports Unicode characters, while binary I/O does not.
-   Binary I/O is faster than character-based I/O.

## Serialization and Deserialization

Serialization is the process of converting an object to a stream of bytes so that the object can be easily saved to disk or sent over the network. Deserialization is the process of converting a stream of bytes back into an object.

### Serialization and Deserialization in Java

-   Java provides a built-in mechanism for serialization and deserialization.
-   To make an object serializable, it must implement the `Serializable` interface.
-   Serialization is done using the `ObjectOutputStream` class, and deserialization is done using the `ObjectInputStream` class.

---
### Using InputStream and OutputStream for file I/O

Reading data from a file using InputStream:

```java
try (InputStream is = new FileInputStream("myfile.txt")) {
    byte[] buffer = new byte[1024];
    int bytesRead;
    while ((bytesRead = is.read(buffer)) != -1) {
        // process the data
    }
} catch (IOException e) {
    e.printStackTrace();
}
```

Writing data to a file using OutputStream:

```java
try (OutputStream os = new FileOutputStream("myfile.txt")) {
    byte[] data = "Hello world!".getBytes();
    os.write(data);
} catch (IOException e) {
    e.printStackTrace();
}
```

### Using BufferedReader and BufferedWriter for efficient text I/O

Reading data from a file using BufferedReader:

```java
try (BufferedReader br = new BufferedReader(new FileReader("myfile.txt"))) {
    String line;
    while ((line = br.readLine()) != null) {
        // process the data
    }
} catch (IOException e) {
    e.printStackTrace();
}
```


