
### Define and initialize built-in arrays

- Initialization: `char input_buffer[buffer_size];`, the length must be a const expression, or not written, let the compiler infer by itself.
- Arrays do not allow direct assignment to another array.

### Access array elements

- Type of array subscript: `size_t`.
- Specificity of character arrays: there is a null character at the end, like `char a[] = "hello";`.
- Initialize `vector` with an array: `int a[] = {1,2,3,4,5}; vector<int> v(begin(a), end(a));`.

### Arrays and Pointers

- When using an array, the compiler generally converts it to a pointer.
- The subscript used by the standard library type must be an unsigned type, while the built-in subscript can handle negative values.
- **Pointer access array**: When using an array name in an expression, the name will be automatically converted into a pointer to the first element of the array.

---

## Multidimensional Arrays

- **Initialization of multidimensional array**: `int ia[3][4] = {{0,1,2,3}, ...}`.
- When using a range for statement, except for the innermost loop, the control variables of all other loops should be **reference** types.

## pointers vs references

- A reference always points to an object, and it is wrong to define a reference without initialization.
- Assigning a value to a reference modifies the value of the object associated with the reference instead of associating the reference with another object.

## pointer to pointer

- Definition: `int **ppi = &pi;`
- Dereference: `**ppi`

## dynamic array

- Use `new` and `delete` to express functions similar to `malloc` and `free` in c, that is, to allocate storage space in the heap (free storage area).
- Definition: `int *pia = new int[10];` 10 can be replaced by a variable.
- Release: `delete [] pia;`, be careful not to forget `[]`.