Java's collection classes can be traversed using the for-each loop. Lists, Sets, and Queues will iterate through each element, while Maps will iterate through each key. Taking a List as an example:

```java
List<String> list = List.of("Apple", "Orange", "Pear");
for (String s : list) {
    System.out.println(s);
}
```

In reality, the Java compiler doesn't inherently know how to iterate through a List. The code above compiles because the compiler transforms the for-each loop into a standard for-loop using an Iterator:

```java
for (Iterator<String> it = list.iterator(); it.hasNext(); ) {
     String s = it.next();
     System.out.println(s);
}
```

This pattern of traversing a collection using an Iterator object is known as the iterator pattern.

The advantage of using an iterator is that the caller can always traverse various types of collections in a unified manner, without having to be concerned about their internal storage structure.

For instance, although we know that an ArrayList internally uses an array to store elements and provides a `get(int)` method, we can also traverse it using a for-loop:

```java
for (int i=0; i<list.size(); i++) {
    Object value = list.get(i);
}
```

However, this approach requires the caller to be aware of the collection's internal storage structure. Moreover, if we replace an ArrayList with a LinkedList, the `get(int)` method becomes inefficient as the index increases. If we replace the ArrayList with a Set, the code won't compile because Sets do not have indexes internally.

Using an Iterator does not have these issues because the Iterator object is internally created by the collection itself. It knows how to efficiently traverse its data set, allowing the caller to maintain unified code. The compiler can automatically convert a standard for-each loop into Iterator traversal.

If we write a custom collection class and want it to support the for-each loop, we need to meet the following conditions:

- The collection class implements the `Iterable` interface, which requires returning an Iterator object.
- The Iterator object iterates through the collection's internal data.

The key here is that the collection class, through the `iterator()` method, returns an Iterator object, which must know how to traverse the collection.

Here's a simple Iterator example that always iterates through the collection in reverse order:

```java
// Iterator
import java.util.*;

public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        ReverseList<String> rlist = new ReverseList<>();
        rlist.add("Apple");
        rlist.add("Orange");
        rlist.add("Pear");
        for (String s : rlist) {
            System.out.println(s);
        }
    }
}

class ReverseList<T> implements Iterable<T> {

    private List<T> list = new ArrayList<>();

    public void add(T t) {
        list.add(t);
    }

    @Override
    public Iterator<T> iterator() {
        return new ReverseIterator(list.size());
    }

    class ReverseIterator implements Iterator<T> {
        int index;

        ReverseIterator(int index) {
            this.index = index;
        }

        @Override
        public boolean hasNext() {
            return index > 0;
        }

        @Override
        public T next() {
            index--;
            return ReverseList.this.list.get(index);
        }
    }
}
```

Although the implementations of `ReverseList` and `ReverseIterator` might seem somewhat complex, it's important to note that this is the underlying collection framework, which only needs to be written once. The caller, on the other hand, can simply use the for-each loop to write code, without needing to understand the collection's internal storage or traversal logic.

When implementing an Iterator, it's common to use an inner class to implement the `Iterator` interface. This inner class can directly access all the fields and methods of the corresponding outer class. For example, in the code above, the `ReverseIterator` inner class can obtain the current outer class's `this` reference with `ReverseList.this`, allowing access to all fields and methods of `ReverseList`.