When writing applications, it is often necessary to read and write configuration files. For example, user settings:

```
# Last opened file:
last_open_file=/data/hello.txt
# Interval for auto-saving files:
auto_save_interval=60
```

Configuration files are characterized by their Key-Value pairs, typically being String-String types, making them representable by `Map<String, String>`.

Given the common use of configuration files, the Java Collections Framework provides a `Properties` class to represent a set of configurations. Due to historical reasons, `Properties` internally is essentially a `Hashtable`, but we only need to use the `Properties` class's interfaces for reading and writing configurations.

**Reading Configuration Files**

Reading configuration files with `Properties` is straightforward. Java's default configuration files use the `.properties` extension, formatted as `key=value` per line, with lines starting with `#` being comments. Here's an example of a typical configuration file:

```
# setting.properties

last_open_file=/data/hello.txt
auto_save_interval=60
```

You can read this `.properties` file from the file system:

```java
String f = "setting.properties";
Properties props = new Properties();
props.load(new java.io.FileInputStream(f));

String filepath = props.getProperty("last_open_file");
String interval = props.getProperty("auto_save_interval", "120");
```

Using `Properties` to read configuration files involves three steps:

1. Create a `Properties` instance.
2. Call `load()` to read the file.
3. Call `getProperty()` to retrieve a configuration.

When calling `getProperty()` to get a configuration, if the key does not exist, it returns `null`. You can also provide a default value, so when the key does not exist, it returns the default value.

Properties files can also be read from the classpath because the `load(InputStream)` method accepts an `InputStream` instance, which is a byte stream, not necessarily a file stream. It can also be a resource stream read from a jar package:

```java
Properties props = new Properties();
props.load(getClass().getResourceAsStream("/common/setting.properties"));
```

Try reading a byte stream from memory:

```java
import java.io.*;
import java.util.Properties;

public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) throws IOException {
        String settings = "# test" + "\n" + "course=Java" + "\n" + "last_open_date=2019-08-07T12:35:01";
        ByteArrayInputStream input = new ByteArrayInputStream(settings.getBytes("UTF-8"));
        Properties props = new Properties();
        props.load(input);

        System.out.println("course: " + props.getProperty("course"));
        System.out.println("last_open_date: " + props.getProperty("last_open_date"));
        System.out.println("last_open_file: " + props.getProperty("last_open_file"));
        System.out.println("auto_save: " + props.getProperty("auto_save", "60"));
    }
}
```

If you have multiple `.properties` files, you can call `load()` multiple times to read them. Later reads of `key-value` will overwrite previously read `key-value`:

```java
Properties props = new Properties();
props.load(getClass().getResourceAsStream("/common/setting.properties"));
props.load(new FileInputStream("C:\\conf\\setting.properties"));
```

This code demonstrates a common use of `Properties`: default configuration files can be placed in the classpath, and another configuration file can be written based on the machine's environment to override some of the default configurations.

`Properties` was designed to store String type key-value pairs but actually derives from `Hashtable`. Its design is problematic, but to maintain compatibility, it can't be changed now. Besides `getProperty()` and `setProperty()` methods, there are inherited `get()` and `put()` methods from `Hashtable` with `Object` parameters. When using `Properties`, avoid calling these inherited methods.

**Writing Configuration Files**

If `setProperty()` has been used to modify the `Properties` instance, the configuration can be written to a file for retrieval upon the next startup. Use the `store()` method to write configuration files:

```java
Properties props = new Properties();
props.setProperty("url", "http://www.liaoxuefeng.com");
props.setProperty("language", "Java");
props.store(new FileOutputStream("C:\\conf\\setting.properties"), "This is a properties comment");
```

**Encoding**

Earlier versions of Java required `.properties` files to be encoded in ASCII (ISO8859-1), making it cumbersome to represent Chinese characters as `name=\u4e2d\u6587`. From JDK9 onwards, Java's `.properties` files can use UTF-8 encoding.

However, because `load(InputStream)` always reads the byte stream using ASCII encoding by default, it may lead to gar

bled characters. Use the `load(Reader)` method to avoid this issue:

```java
Properties props = new Properties();
props.load(new FileReader("settings.properties", StandardCharsets.UTF_8));
```

This allows for normal reading of Chinese characters. The difference between `InputStream` and `Reader` is that one is a byte stream and the other is a character stream. Character streams are already represented as `char` types in memory, so they don't involve encoding issues.