- Enums, short for "enumerations," are custom data types that define a set of named values.
- Enums allow you to represent a finite set of distinct variants or options.
- Enums are useful for modeling data with multiple possible states or representing choices or options.

### Declaring and Defining Enums

- Enums are declared using the `enum` keyword, followed by the name of the enum and the list of variants inside curly braces `{ }`.
- Each variant is separated by commas and can optionally have associated data.

### Enum Variants

- Enum variants represent the different possible values of an enum.
- Variants can have associated data, allowing them to store additional values.
- <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">Associated data can have different types for each variant</mark> or can be shared among multiple variants.

### Pattern Matching and Match Expressions

- Pattern matching is a powerful feature in Rust used with enums to perform different actions based on the variant of an enum value.
- Match expressions allow you to pattern match against the variants of an enum and execute corresponding code based on the matched pattern.

### Option Enum

- The `Option` enum is a built-in enum in Rust used for handling optional values or values that can be `Some` or `None`.
- It is commonly used when a value may be absent or when the absence of a value needs to be explicitly represented.

### Result Enum

- The `Result` enum is another built-in enum in Rust used for error handling and representing operations that may succeed (`Ok`) or fail (`Err`).
- It is commonly used when a function or operation can return a value or an error and allows for explicit handling of success and failure cases.

### Enum Methods and Associated Functions

- Enums can have methods and associated functions just like structs.
- Methods and associated functions allow for behavior specific to the enum type.
- Methods are defined within the `impl` block and have access to the enum instance using the `self` parameter.
- Associated functions are defined within the `impl` block but don't take `self` as a parameter.

### Visibility and Modules

- The visibility of enums and their variants can be controlled using the `pub` keyword.
- By default, enums and their variants are private to the module where they are defined.
- To make an enum or its variants accessible outside the module, use `pub` before the enum or variant declaration.

Enums in Rust provide a flexible and concise way to represent and work with a set of related values or options. They are useful for modeling state, representing choices, and handling optional or error-prone scenarios. By leveraging pattern matching and associated functions, enums enable powerful and expressive code that handles different cases based on the variant of the enum value.

```rust
// enum
enum IpAddrKind {
    V4,
    V6,
}

enum IpAddrKindWithValue {
    V4(u8, u8, u8, u8),
    V6(String),
}

enum Message {
    Quit,                       // no data associated
    Move { x: i32, y: i32 },    // anonymous struct
    Write(String),              // single String
    ChangeColor(i32, i32, i32), // three i32 values
}

// enum with method
impl Message {
    fn call(&self) {
        // method body
    }
}

fn main() {
    // enum

    // example 1
    let four = IpAddrKind::V4;
    let six = IpAddrKind::V6;
    route(four);

    // example 2
    let home = IpAddrKindWithValue::V4(127, 0, 0, 1);
    let loopback = IpAddrKindWithValue::V6(String::from("::1"));

    // example 3
    let q = Message::Quit;
    let m = Message::Move { x: 1, y: 2 };
    let w = Message::Write(String::from("hello"));
    let c = Message::ChangeColor(1, 2, 3);

    q.call(); // method call
}

fn route(ip_kind: IpAddrKind) {}
```