- The `match` expression in Rust provides a powerful way to perform pattern matching and execute different code paths based on the value of an expression.
- It is often used with enums to handle different cases or variants and make decisions based on the matched pattern.

### Patterns in `match`

- Patterns in `match` are used to compare against the value of the expression being matched.
- Patterns can take various forms, such as literals, variable names, wildcards (`_`), or destructured components of structs or enums.
- Multiple patterns can be provided, separated by commas, allowing for handling different cases or variants.

### Execution Flow of `match`

- The `match` expression evaluates the provided expression and compares it against the patterns listed in the code blocks.
- It executes the code block associated with the first pattern that matches the value.
- The code block associated with the matched pattern is executed, and then the execution of the `match` expression completes.

### Handling Exhaustive and Non-exhaustive Patterns

- Rust enforces exhaustive pattern matching, meaning that all possible cases or variants must be handled in the `match` expression.
- To ensure exhaustiveness, you can include a wildcard pattern (`_`) or a catch-all arm (`_ => { ... }`) to handle any remaining cases that are not explicitly matched.

### Binding Values with Patterns

- Patterns in `match` can bind values to variables within the code block.
- This allows you to access and use the matched values within the corresponding code block.

### Usage of `match`

- `match` is commonly used to handle different cases or variants of enums, such as `Option` or custom enums.
- It can be used to execute different code paths based on the value of an expression, such as handling different error cases or making decisions based on user input.

### Benefits of `match`

- The `match` expression promotes safe and comprehensive handling of different cases or variants.
- It helps avoid issues like null pointer dereference, unexpected behavior, or missed cases.
- It leads to code that is clear, expressive, and easy to understand.


```rust
enum Coin {
    Penny,
    Nickel,
    Dime,
    Quarter,
}

fn value_in_cents(coin: Coin) -> u32 {
    match coin {
        Coin::Penny => {
            println!("Lucky Penny!");
            1
        }
        Coin::Nickel => 5,
        Coin::Dime => 10,
        Coin::Quarter => 25,
    }
}

fn main(){
// if let
    let coin: Coin = Coin::Penny;
    let mut count: u32 = 0;
    match coin {
        Coin::Quarter => println!("State quarter from 2008!"),
        _ => count += 1,
    } // match is exhaustive, so we have to use _ to match all other cases.
    
    let coin: Coin = Coin::Quarter;
    let mut count: u32 = 0;
    if let Coin::Quarter = coin {
        println!("State quarter from 2008!");
    } else {
        count += 1;
    } // if let is not exhaustive, so we don't have to use _ to match all other cases.
    
}
```