----

## Arithmetic Operators

-   **Overflow**: Overflow occurs when the result of a computation exceeds the range that can be represented by the type.
-   **bool types should not participate in arithmetic computations**.

```cpp
bool b=true;
bool b2=-b;   //still true
//b is true, and is promoted to int=1, -b=-1
//b2=-1≠0, thus b2 remains true
```


-   Remainder operator m%n, result's sign is the same as m.


## Logical Operators

-   **Short-circuit Evaluation**: Both logical AND and OR operators first evaluate the left-hand operand and then the right-hand operand. The right-hand operand is evaluated only if the left-hand operand does not determine the result. **Evaluate left first, then right**.
-   Declaring a reference can avoid copying elements, which can save a lot of time, especially when the string is particularly large.

```cpp
vector<string> text;
for(const auto &s: text){
  cout<<s;
}
```


## Assignment Operators

-   The result of an assignment operation is its left-hand operand, and it is a lvalue. The type is the same as that of the left-hand object.
-   If the left and right operands of the assignment operator have different types, the right operand is converted to the type of the left operand.
-   The assignment operator satisfies **right-associative law**, which is different from other binary operators. `ival = jval = 0;` is equivalent to `ival = (jval = 0);`
-   The priority of the assignment operator is relatively low. When using it as a condition, parentheses should be added.
-   Compound assignment operators, the **compound operators evaluate the right-hand side expression only once**, whereas the regular operators evaluate it twice. (This has a slight impact on performance) Any compound operator op is equivalent to `a = a op b;`


## Increment and Decrement Operators

-   Prefix version `j = ++i`, add one first, then assign value
-   Suffix version `j = i++`, assign value first, then add one

**Prefix is preferred**, the postfix has an extra step to store the original value. (Unless the value before the change is needed)


### Mixing Dereference and Increment Operators

`*iter++` is equivalent to `*(iter++)`, and the increment operator has a higher priority.

```cpp
auto iter = vi.begin();
while (iter!=vi.end()&&*iter>=0)
	cout<<*iter++<<endl;	// Output the current value, and move the pointer forward by 1.
```


## Member Access Operators

`ptr->mem` is equivalent to `(*ptr).mem`

Note that the `.` operator has a higher priority than `*`, so remember to add parentheses.

```cpp
class Rectangle {
public:
    int width;
    int height;
    int area() { return width * height; }
};

Rectangle *ptr = new Rectangle();
ptr->width = 5;
ptr->height = 10;
cout << "The area of the rectangle is " << ptr->area() << endl;
```

## Conditional Operator

-   The conditional operator (`?:`) allows us to embed simple `if-else` logic within a single expression in the following form: `cond? expr1: expr2`
-   Can be nested, **right-associative law**, combined from right to left in order.

```cpp
finalgrade = (grade > 90) ? "high pass"
    : (grade < 60) ? "fail" : "pass";
// equivalent to
finalgrade = (grade > 90) ? "high pass"
    : （(grade < 60) ? "fail" : "pass"）;
```
-   When outputting an expression using the conditional operator, remember to add parentheses because the priority of the


## Bitwise Operators

Used to check and set binary bits.

-   Bitwise operators act on **integer types**.
-   Binary bits can be shifted left (`<<`) or right (`>>`), and bits outside the boundary are discarded.
-   Bitwise NOT (`~`) (bitwise complement), AND (`&`), OR (`|`), XOR (`^`)

Signed values may change sign after shifting, so it is strongly recommended to use bitwise operators only with **unsigned values**.

Example:
```cpp
unsigned long quiz1 = 0;    // Each bit represents a student passing or failing an exam
1UL << 12;  // represents student 12 passing
quiz1 |= (1UL << 12);   // sets student 12 to pass
quiz1 &= ~(1UL << 12);  // sets student 12 to fail
bool stu12 = quiz1 & (1UL << 12);   // checks if student 12 passed
```

Bitwise operators are left-associative and have medium priority, so it is recommended to use parentheses when using them.


## sizeof operator

-   Returns the **number of bytes** occupied by an expression or a type name.
-   The returned type is a constant expression of type `size_t`.
-   `sizeof` does not actually calculate the value of its operand.
-   Two forms:
    1.  `sizeof (type)`, gives the type name
    2.  `sizeof expr`, gives the expression
-   `sizeof` can be used to return the size of an array

```cpp
int ia[10];
// sizeof(ia) returns the size of the entire array
// sizeof(ia)/sizeof(*ia) returns the size of the array
constexpr size_t sz = sizeof(ia)/sizeof(*ia);
int arr[sz];
```


## Comma Operator

Evaluates expressions from left to right.

The left side is discarded, and the result of the comma operator is the value of the right side expression.



