Classification in machine learning is the process of building models to describe interesting classes of data, where the models are called classifiers. The classification models are constructed by <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">a learning method or algorithm</mark> and can be used to <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">classify unseen data into pre-determined class labels</mark>. The models may also provide a compact summary of the data that is explanatory for humans. Typically, classification is binary, where objects are classified as belonging to a class or not, but generalizations to more than two classes are important.

Classification is commonly used in science, marketing, fraud detection, performance prediction, medical diagnosis, and fault diagnosis. The distinction between classification and numerical prediction is that <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">classification deals with categorical class labels</mark>, while <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">numerical prediction builds models of continuous-valued functions</mark> to predict unknown or missing numeric values.

Supervised learning is the classification approach where the training data has labels indicating the class of observations. Batch and incremental learning are two common types of supervised learning. In contrast, unsupervised learning has no class labels in the training data, and the algorithm must find interesting classes with which to classify new data, a process commonly called clustering. Other problem variants in classification include semi-supervised learning and zero-shot learning, where the target classes lack labelled data.