EternalBlue is a highly potent exploit that targeted a vulnerability in the Windows operating system. Here are the key points to remember:

1. Description: EternalBlue is an exploit that takes advantage of a vulnerability in the Server Message Block version 1.0 (SMBv1) protocol, affecting Windows systems. It allows attackers to remotely execute code and gain control over vulnerable machines.
    
2. Discovery and Leak: EternalBlue was initially discovered and developed by the NSA (National Security Agency). However, it was later leaked by a hacking group called The Shadow Brokers in 2017, exposing its capabilities to the wider hacking community.
    
3. WannaCry Ransomware: EternalBlue gained significant notoriety for its role in the widespread WannaCry ransomware attack, which occurred in May 2017. The ransomware utilized EternalBlue to propagate and infect hundreds of thousands of computers globally, impacting critical infrastructure and organizations.
    
4. Mitigation: Microsoft promptly released a security patch in March 2017 to address the EternalBlue vulnerability. It is crucial to regularly update Windows systems with the latest security patches to protect against this exploit and other potential threats.
    
5. Responsible Use: EternalBlue is a highly dangerous exploit with significant destructive potential. It should only be used ethically and legally, within authorized scenarios such as penetration testing, where explicit permission and consent have been obtained. Unauthorized use of EternalBlue is illegal and unethical, posing severe risks to individuals and organizations.

---

```
search ms17_010
```

```
use <id/module directory>
```
