We know that a List is a type of ordered collection: List internally stores elements in the order they were added, and each element can determine its position through an index.

List also provides a `boolean contains(Object o)` method to determine whether the List contains a specified element. Moreover, the `int indexOf(Object o)` method can return the index of an element, returning -1 if the element does not exist.

Let's look at an example:

```java
import java.util.List;

public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        List<String> list = List.of("A", "B", "C");
        System.out.println(list.contains("C")); // true
        System.out.println(list.contains("X")); // false
        System.out.println(list.indexOf("C")); // 2
        System.out.println(list.indexOf("X")); // -1
    }
}
```

Here, we notice a question: is the "C" we added to the List the same instance as the "C" passed to `contains("C")`?

If these two "C"s are not the same instance, can this code still yield the correct result? We can rewrite the code to test it:

```java
import java.util.List;

public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        List<String> list = List.of("A", "B", "C");
        System.out.println(list.contains(new String("C"))); // true or false?
        System.out.println(list.indexOf(new String("C"))); // 2 or -1?
    }
}
```

Since we're passing in `new String("C")`, they are definitely different instances. The result still meets our expectations. Why is that?

Because the List internally does not use `==` to determine whether two elements are equal but uses the `equals()` method. For example, the `contains()` method can be implemented as follows:

```java
public class ArrayList {
    Object[] elementData;
    public boolean contains(Object o) {
        for (int i = 0; i < elementData.length; i++) {
            if (o.equals(elementData[i])) {
                return true;
            }
        }
        return false;
    }
}
```

Therefore, to correctly use List's `contains()`, `indexOf()` methods, the instances put into the List must override the `equals()` method correctly; otherwise, the instances put in cannot be found. We can normally put objects like String, Integer because these classes defined in the Java standard library have already implemented the `equals()` method correctly.

Let's test it with a `Person` object as an example:

```java
import java.util.List;

public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        List<Person> list = List.of(
            new Person("Xiao Ming"),
            new Person("Xiao Hong"),
            new Person("Bob")
        );
        System.out.println(list.contains(new Person("Bob"))); // false
    }
}

class Person {
    String name;
    public Person(String name) {
        this.name = name;
    }
}
```

As expected, although we put in `new Person("Bob")`, another `new Person("Bob")` cannot be found, because the `Person` class does not override the `equals()` method.

**Writing equals**

How to write the `equals()` method correctly? The `equals()` method requires us to satisfy the following conditions:

- Reflexivity: For any non-null reference value `x`, `x.equals(x)` must return true.
- Symmetry: For any non-null reference values `x` and `y`, `x.equals(y)` must return true if and only if `y.equals(x)` returns true.
- Transitivity: For any non-null reference values `x`, `y`, and `z`, if `x.equals(y)` returns true and `y.equals(z)` returns true, then `x.equals(z)` must return true.
- Consistency: For any non-null reference values `x` and `y`, multiple invocations of `x.equals(y)` consistently return true or consistently return false, provided no information used in `equals` comparisons on the objects is modified.
- For any non-null reference value `x`, `x.equals(null)` must return false.

These rules might seem complex, but the code implementation of the `equals()` method is quite simple. Let's take the `Person` class as an example:

```java
public class Person {
    public String name;
    public int age;
}
```

First, we define the logical meaning of "equal". For the `Person` class, if the `name` is equal, and the `age` is equal, we consider the two `Person` instances equal.

Thus, we write the `equals

()` method as follows:

```java
public boolean equals(Object o) {
    if (o instanceof Person p) {
        return this.name.equals(p.name) && this.age == p.age;
    }
    return false;
}
```

For comparing reference fields, we use `equals()`, and for basic type fields, we use `==`.

If `this.name` is null, then the `equals()` method will throw an error. Therefore, we need to write it as follows to handle nulls:

```java
public boolean equals(Object o) {
    if (o instanceof Person p) {
        boolean nameEquals = false;
        if (this.name == null && p.name == null) {
            nameEquals = true;
        }
        if (this.name != null) {
            nameEquals = this.name.equals(p.name);
        }
        return nameEquals && this.age == p.age;
    }
    return false;
}
```

If `Person` has several reference-type fields, the above method is too complicated. To simplify the comparison of reference types, we use the `Objects.equals()` static method:

```java
public boolean equals(Object o) {
    if (o instanceof Person p) {
        return Objects.equals(this.name, p.name) && this.age == p.age;
    }
    return false;
}
```

Therefore, we summarize the correct method of writing the `equals()` method:

1. First determine the logic of instance "equality", i.e., which fields equal means the instances are equal.
2. Use `instanceof` to check if the passed-in Object to compare is of the current type; if so, continue to compare, otherwise return false.
3. For reference types, use `Objects.equals()` for comparison, and for basic types, use `==`.

The purpose of using `Objects.equals()` to compare two reference types is to avoid the hassle of null checks. Two reference types are also considered equal if they are both null.

If you don't call List's `contains()`, `indexOf()` methods, then the elements put in don't need to implement the `equals()` method.
