We know that a Map is a key-value mapping table that allows for fast retrieval of a value by its key.

Taking HashMap as an example, observe the following code:

```java
Map<String, Person> map = new HashMap<>();
map.put("a", new Person("Xiao Ming"));
map.put("b", new Person("Xiao Hong"));
map.put("c", new Person("Xiao Jun"));

map.get("a"); // Person("Xiao Ming")
map.get("x"); // null
```

The reason why HashMap can directly retrieve a value by its key is that it uses a <mark style="background: #ABF7F7A6;">space-for-time method</mark> internally, storing all values in a large array and calculating the index where the value should be stored based on the key:

```
  ┌───┐
0 │   │
  ├───┤
1 │ ●─┼───> Person("Xiao Ming")
  ├───┤
2 │   │
  ├───┤
3 │   │
  ├───┤
4 │   │
  ├───┤
5 │ ●─┼───> Person("Xiao Hong")
  ├───┤
6 │ ●─┼───> Person("Xiao Jun")
  ├───┤
7 │   │
  └───┘
```

If the key value is "a", the calculated index is always 1, thus returning the value Person("Xiao Ming"). If the key value is "b", the calculated index is always 5, thus returning the value Person("Xiao Hong"). This way, there's no need to traverse the entire array to directly read the value corresponding to the key.

When we use a key to store and retrieve a value, a question arises:

The key we put into the Map is the string "a", but when we retrieve a value from the Map, the variable we pass in is not necessarily the same key object we put in.

In other words, the two keys should have the same content, but they are not necessarily the same object. Test code as follows:

```java
import java.util.HashMap;
import java.util.Map;

public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        String key1 = "a";
        Map<String, Integer> map = new HashMap<>();
        map.put(key1, 123);

        String key2 = new String("a");
        map.get(key2); // 123

        System.out.println(key1 == key2); // false
        System.out.println(key1.equals(key2)); // true
    }
}
```

Because inside the Map, comparing keys is implemented through the equals() method, similar to how List finds elements that require correctly overriding equals(), i.e., to use Map correctly, it's essential that objects used as keys correctly override the equals() method.

We often use String as a key because String has already correctly overridden the equals() method. However, if the key we put in is a class we wrote ourselves, we must ensure that the equals() method is correctly overridden.

Let's consider why HashMap can calculate the index where a value is stored directly by the key. Objects considered the same by the equals() method (returning true when compared) must calculate the same index; otherwise, the same key might retrieve different values each time.

The way to calculate the index by the key is by calling the key object's hashCode() method, which returns an int integer. HashMap directly locates the index corresponding to the key's value by this method, and then directly returns the value.

Therefore, to use Map correctly, it's required to:

- Objects used as keys must correctly override the equals() method. Two equal key instances calling equals() must return true.
- Objects used as keys must also correctly override the hashCode() method, and the hashCode() method must strictly follow the specifications:
  - If two objects are equal, their hashCode() must be equal.
  - If two objects are not equal, their hashCode() should ideally not be equal.

This means for two instances a and b:

- If a and b are equal, then a.equals(b) must be true, thus <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">a.hashCode() must equal b.hashCode()</mark>.
- If a and b are not equal, then a.equals(b) must be false, thus a.hashCode() and b.hashCode() should<mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;"> ideally not be equal</mark>.

The first rule is mandatory for correctness; failing to meet it means HashMap cannot work properly. The second rule, if met as much as possible, ensures query efficiency because different objects returning the same hashCode() can cause storage conflicts within the Map, reducing efficiency.

The method of writing equals() has already been discussed in the section on writing the equals method, taking the Person class as an example:

```java
public class Person {
    String firstName;
	String lastName;
    int age;
}
```

Identify the fields needed for comparison:
- firstName
- lastName
- age

Then, use Objects.equals() for reference types and == for primitive types.

On top of implementing equals() correctly, we also need to implement hashCode() correctly, so that instances with the same three fields must have the same hashCode():

```java
public class Person {
    String firstName;
    String lastName;
    int age;

    @Override
    public int hashCode() {
        int h = 0;
        h = 31 * h + firstName.hashCode();
        h = 31 * h + lastName.hashCode();
        h = 31 * h + age;
        return h;
    }
}
```

Note that the String class has correctly implemented hashCode(), and we repeatedly use `31 * h` when calculating the hashCode() of Person to distribute the hashCode() of different Person instances evenly across the entire int range.

Similar to the issues faced when implementing the equals() method, if firstName or lastName is null, the above code will throw a NullPointerException. To solve this problem when calculating hashCode(), we often use Objects.hash():

```java
public int hashCode() {
    return Objects.hash(firstName, lastName, age);
}
```

Thus, the principle for writing equals() and hashCode() is:

- Every field used for comparison in equals() must be used to calculate in hashCode(); fields not used in equals() must not be included in the calculation of hashCode().

Additionally, there are no requirements for the objects used as values in HashMap.

**Extended Reading**

Since HashMap internally uses an array and calculates the value's index directly by the key's hashCode(), the first question arises: Given the hashCode() returns an int range of ±2.1 billion, not considering negatives, how large does the internal array of HashMap need to be?

Actually, the default size of the array in HashMap is only 16 upon initialization. Any key, no matter how large its hashCode() is, can be simply determined within the range of 0~15 by:

```java
int index = key.hashCode() & 0xf; // 0xf = 15
```

This algorithm is just one of the simplest implementations.

The second question: What happens when more than 16 key-value pairs are added to HashMap and the array is not large enough?

When a certain number of key-value pairs are added, HashMap will automatically increase its capacity internally, doubling each time, i.e., from an array length of 16 to 32, and accordingly, the index position calculated by hashCode() needs to be redetermined. For example, to calculate the index for an array length of 32, the calculation method needs to be changed to:

```java
int index = key.hashCode() & 0x1f; // 0x1f = 31
```

Since resizing causes redistribution of existing key-value pairs, frequent resizing has a significant impact on HashMap's performance. If we know we will use a HashMap with a capacity of 10,000 key-value pairs, a better way is to specify the capacity when creating the HashMap:

```java
Map<String, Integer> map = new HashMap<>(10000);
```

Although the specified capacity is 10,000, the internal array length of HashMap is always 2^n, so the actual array length is initialized to 16,384 (2^14), larger than 10,000.

The last question: If two different keys, such as "a" and "b", have the exact same hashCode() (which is entirely possible, as non-equal instances are only required to have hashCode() as different as possible), then, when we put:

```java
map.put("a", new Person("Xiao Ming"));
map.put("b", new Person("Xiao Hong"));
```

Since the calculated array index is the same, will "Xiao Hong" overwrite "Xiao Ming"?

Of course not! When using Map, as long as the keys are different, their mapped values do not interfere with each other. However, inside HashMap, it is indeed possible for different keys to map to the same hashCode(), i.e., the same array index. What to do then?

Let's assume "a" and "b" calculate to index 5 in the HashMap array. What's actually stored in the array is not a Person instance but a List containing two entries, one for "a" and one for "b":

```
  ┌───┐
0 │   │
  ├───┤
1 │   │
  ├───┤
2 │   │
  ├───┤
3 │   │
  ├───┤
4 │   │
  ├───┤
5 │ ●─┼───> List<Entry<String, Person>>
  ├───┤
6 │   │
  ├───┤
7 │   │
  └───┘
```

During retrieval, for example:

```java
Person p = map.get("a");
```

Internally, what HashMap finds with "a" is actually a List<Entry<String, Person>>, which it must iterate over to find an Entry whose key field is "a" to return the corresponding Person instance.

We call the situation where different keys have the same hashCode() a hash conflict. In the case of a conflict, one simple solution is to use a List to store key-value pairs with the same hashCode(). Obviously, <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">the higher the probability of conflict, the longer the List, and the lower the efficiency</mark> of the Map's get() method, which is why it's crucial to meet the second condition as much as possible:

- If two objects are not equal, their hashCode() should ideally not be equal.

The better the hashCode() method is written, the higher the efficiency of HashMap's operation.