
In Java, the code itself is not run by multiple threads, but multiple threads can be used to run different parts of the code concurrently.

Multithreading can be useful in scenarios where certain parts of the code take a long time to execute and would otherwise block the program from executing other parts of the code. By running those time-consuming parts of the code in a separate thread, other parts of the program can continue to execute concurrently in the main thread or other threads.

Additionally, multithreading can be used in scenarios where different tasks need to be performed simultaneously, such as handling multiple user requests or processing data in parallel.

----

### What is multithreading?

Multithreading is a programming concept that allows multiple threads to execute concurrently within a single program. Each thread is a separate flow of execution, and it can perform its own tasks independently of other threads.

### Why use multithreading?

Multithreading can improve the performance of a program by allowing it to take advantage of multiple processors or processor cores. It can also make the program more responsive by allowing it to perform multiple tasks simultaneously.

### Threads vs Processes

A thread is a subset of a process. A process is an independent program that runs in its own memory space, while a thread is a lightweight process that runs within the memory space of its parent process.

### Types of Threads in Java

There are two types of threads in Java: user threads and daemon threads. User threads are threads that are created by the application code, while daemon threads are threads that run in the background and provide services to user threads.

### Creating Threads in Java

There are two ways to create threads in Java: by extending the Thread class and by implementing the Runnable interface. Here is an example of each:

```java
// Creating a thread by extending the Thread class
public class MyThread extends Thread {
    public void run() {
        // Code to be executed in this thread
    }
}

// Creating a thread by implementing the Runnable interface
public class MyRunnable implements Runnable {
    public void run() {
        // Code to be executed in this thread
    }
}

// Creating and starting threads
MyThread thread1 = new MyThread();
thread1.start();

MyRunnable runnable = new MyRunnable();
Thread thread2 = new Thread(runnable);
thread2.start();
```

### Thread Lifecycle

A thread in Java goes through several states during its lifetime. Here are the states and their descriptions:

-   New: The thread is created but not yet started.
-   Runnable: The thread is ready to run, but the scheduler has not yet chosen it to run.
-   Running: The thread is currently being executed.
-   Blocked: The thread is waiting for a lock or waiting for I/O to complete.
-   Waiting: The thread is waiting for another thread to complete or for a timeout to expire.
-   Terminated: The thread has finished executing.
