- Ownership is a unique feature in Rust that helps manage memory and avoid issues like memory leaks, dangling pointers, and data races.
- The ownership system enforces strict rules regarding how memory is allocated, used, and freed in Rust programs.

### Rules

1. Each value in Rust has a unique owner. There can be<mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;"> only one owner at a time</mark>.
2. When a value goes out of scope, the memory associated with it is automatically freed.
3. When a value is assigned or passed to another variable or function, the ownership is transferred, and the previous owner no longer has access to that value.
4. Ownership can be transferred through assignment or function calls, which is known as a move.
5. Some types in Rust, such as integers and booleans, are small enough to be copied instead of moved.

### Stack

- The stack is a region of memory used for storing function call frames and local variables.
- Stack allocation is fast and deterministic since memory is automatically allocated and deallocated when variables go out of scope.
- Stack variables have a fixed size and a known lifetime.
- Variables with a fixed size and known lifetime are stored on the stack.

### Heap

- The heap is a region of memory used for dynamic memory allocation.
- Heap allocation is less deterministic and involves requesting memory at runtime.
- Variables with unknown size or a longer lifetime are typically stored on the heap.
- Heap-allocated memory needs to be explicitly deallocated to prevent memory leaks.

### Memory Allocation

- <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">Ownership in Rust is directly tied to memory allocation and deallocation</mark>.
- Owned values are typically allocated <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">on the heap</mark>.
- When a value is created or acquired ownership, memory is dynamically allocated on the heap to store that value.
- The owner has full control over the allocated memory and is responsible for freeing it when the owner goes out of scope.
- When an <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">owned value goes out of scope</mark>, Rust <mark style="background: #ABF7F7A6;">automatically calls the appropriate destructor</mark>, freeing the memory associated with the value.

### Stack Variables

- Stack variables in Rust are owned values that have a fixed size and known lifetime.
- Stack variables are automatically deallocated when they go out of scope.
- Stack variables do not require explicit memory deallocation since it is handled by the compiler.

### Heap-Allocated Values

- Values stored on the heap, such as those referenced by `Box<T>`, `Vec<T>`, or `String`, are owned by the respective heap-allocated types.
- The owner of heap-allocated values is responsible for deallocating the memory when it goes out of scope.
- Ownership of heap-allocated values can be transferred or shared through ownership transfers or borrowing.

```rust
fn main() {
    // Ownership

    // Move
    let s: String = String::from("hello"); // s comes into scope
    let s2: String = s; // s's value moves into s2
                        // s2 simply copy the ptr/location of s instead of copying the heap data
                        // s is no longer valid here, because its value was moved
    println!("{}", s2);


    // Clone
    let s3: String = String::from("hello");
    let s4: String = s3.clone(); // s3's value is cloned into s4
    println!("s3 = {}, s4 = {}", s3, s4); // s3 and s4 are both valid here

  
    // Copy
    let x: i32 = 5;
    let y: i32 = x; // x's value is copied into y
    println!("x = {}, y = {}", x, y); // x and y are both valid here

  
    // Ownership and Functions
    let s5: String = String::from("hello"); // s5 comes into scope
    takes_ownership(s5); // s5's value moves into the function...
                         // ... and so is no longer valid here
    let x2: i32 = 5; // x2 comes into scope
    makes_copy(x2); // x2 would move into the function,
                    // but i32 is Copy, so it's okay to still
                    // use x2 afterward
    println!("{}", x2);
}


fn takes_ownership(some_string: String) {
    // some_string comes into scope
    println!("{}", some_string);
} // some_string goes out of scope and `drop` is called. The backing memory is freed.


fn makes_copy(some_integer: i32) {
    // some_integer comes into scope
    println!("{}", some_integer);
} // some_integer goes out of scope. Nothing special happens.
```


### Transfers and Borrowing

- Ownership transfers involve moving ownership from one owner to another.
- Transferring ownership requires <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">transferring the memory allocation from one location to another</mark>.
- Borrowing allows temporary access to a value without transferring ownership.
- Immutable borrowing allows multiple readers to access the value simultaneously.
- Mutable borrowing allows a single writer to modify the value while preventing other access to it.