The most important concepts in object-oriented programming are Class and Instance. It's crucial to remember that a class is an abstract template, like the Student class, while an instance is a concrete "object" created based on a class. Each object possesses the same methods, though their data might differ.

In Python, classes are defined using the `class` keyword:

```python
class Student(object):
    pass
```

Following `class` is the class name, here, `Student`, typically starting with a capital letter. `object` indicates the class from which it inherits, a concept to be discussed later. Generally, if there's no suitable inheritance, `object` is used, the base class for all classes.

Once the Student class is defined, we can create instances of Student through the class name plus `()`:

```python
>>> bart = Student()
>>> bart
<__main__.Student object at 0x10a67a590>
>>> Student
<class '__main__.Student'>
```

The variable `bart` points to an instance of Student, with `0x10a67a590` being the memory address, unique to each object, whereas Student itself is a class.

Instances can freely have attributes bound to them. For example, binding a `name` attribute to instance `bart`:

```python
>>> bart.name = 'Bart Simpson'
>>> bart.name
'Bart Simpson'
```

Since a class can serve as a template, we can mandate the binding of certain attributes upon instance creation. By defining a special `__init__` method, attributes like `name` and `score` can be bound during instance creation:

```python
class Student(object):

    def __init__(self, name, score):
        self.name = name
        self.score = score
```

Notice that `__init__` method's first parameter is always `self`, representing the instance itself, hence, various attributes can be bound to `self`, as `self` points to the instance being created.

With the `__init__` method, creating an instance with empty parameters is no longer possible; instead, parameters matching the `__init__` method must be provided, except for `self`, which Python interpreter passes automatically:

```python
>>> bart = Student('Bart Simpson', 59)
>>> bart.name
'Bart Simpson'
>>> bart.score
59
```

Compared to normal functions, the only difference in methods defined within a class is that the first parameter is always the instance variable `self`, and when calling, this parameter doesn't need to be passed. Other than this, class methods and normal functions are identical, hence default parameters, variable parameters, keyword parameters, and named keyword parameters can still be used.

