Within a Class, there can be attributes and methods, and external code can manipulate the data by directly calling an instance variable's methods. This hides the internal complex logic.

However, looking at the definition of the Student class, external code can still freely modify an instance's `name` and `score` attributes:

```python
>>> bart = Student('Bart Simpson', 59)
>>> bart.score
59
>>> bart.score = 99
>>> bart.score
99
```

To prevent external access to internal attributes, you can prefix the attribute names with two underscores `__`. In Python, instance variable names starting with `__` become private variables (private), accessible only internally, not externally. Thus, we modify the Student class:

```python
class Student(object):

    def __init__(self, name, score):
        self.__name = name
        self.__score = score

    def print_score(self):
        print('%s: %s' % (self.__name, self.__score))
```

After modification, there's little change for external code, but it can no longer access the instance variables `.__name` and `.__score`:

```python
>>> bart = Student('Bart Simpson', 59)
>>> bart.__name
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
AttributeError: 'Student' object has no attribute '__name'
```

This ensures that external code can't arbitrarily modify the object's internal state, making the code more robust through access control.

But how can external code get the `name` and `score`? You can add `get_name` and `get_score` methods to the Student class:

```python
class Student(object):
    ...

    def get_name(self):
        return self.__name

    def get_score(self):
        return self.__score
```

If you want to allow external code to modify `score`, you can add a `set_score` method to the Student class:

```python
class Student(object):
    ...

    def set_score(self, score):
        self.__score = score
```

You might wonder why not use `bart.score = 99` directly? By defining a method, you can check the parameters to prevent invalid values:

```python
class Student(object):
    ...

    def set_score(self, score):
        if 0 <= score <= 100:
            self.__score = score
        else:
            raise ValueError('bad score')
```

It's important to note that in Python, variable names like `__xxx__` (double underscore prefix and suffix) are special variables, accessible directly and are not private. Thus, you shouldn't use `__name__`, `__score__` as variable names.

Sometimes, you'll see instance variable names starting with an underscore, like `_name`. These are accessible externally but are conventionally treated as private and should not be accessed arbitrarily.

Can double underscore-prefixed instance variables always not be accessed externally? Not really. The inability to directly access `__name` is because the Python interpreter changed the variable name to `_Student__name`, so it's still accessible through `_Student__name`:

```python
>>> bart._Student__name
'Bart Simpson'
```

However, it's strongly advised against doing this, as different Python interpreter versions might change `__name` to different variable names.

In essence, Python itself doesn't block you from making mistakes; it all depends on self-discipline.

Finally, note the incorrect way of writing shown below:

```python
>>> bart = Student('Bart Simpson', 59)
>>> bart.get_name()
'Bart Simpson'
>>> bart.__name = 'New Name' # Setting __name variable!
>>> bart.__name
'New Name'
```

Externally, it seems like the `__name` variable was "successfully" set, but in reality, this `__name` variable and the class's internal `__name` variable are not the same! The internal `__name` variable was automatically renamed to `_Student__name` by the Python interpreter, while external code added a new `__name` variable to `bart`. Not convinced? Try this:

```python
>>> bart.get_name() # get_name() internally returns self.__name
'Bart Simpson'
```
