When you encounter variables or function names like `__slots__` that look like `__xxx__`, take note that these have special purposes in Python.

We already know how to use `__slots__`, and we're familiar with the `__len__()` method that allows a class to work with the `len()` function.

Besides these, Python classes have many such special-purpose functions that can help us customize the class.

**`__str__`**

First, let's define a `Student` class and print an instance:

```python
class Student(object):
    def __init__(self, name):
        self.name = name

print(Student('Michael'))
```

This prints something like `<__main__.Student object at 0x109afb190>`, which is not very readable.

To print nicely, we just need to define the `__str__()` method to return a nice-looking string:

```python
class Student(object):
    def __init__(self, name):
        self.name = name
    def __str__(self):
        return 'Student object (name: %s)' % self.name

print(Student('Michael'))
```

Now, the instance prints out nicely, showing important internal data.

However, when you directly reference the variable without using `print`, it still doesn't look good:

```python
s = Student('Michael')
s  # This doesn't call __str__
```

This is because direct variable display calls `__repr__()` instead of `__str__`. `__repr__()` is meant for developers and should return a string that, when fed back to `python`, would yield an object with the same state.

A workaround is to define `__repr__` the same as `__str__`:

```python
class Student(object):
    def __init__(self, name):
        self.name = name
    def __str__(self):
        return 'Student object (name=%s)' % self.name
    __repr__ = __str__
```

**`__iter__`**

For a class to be iterable and work in a `for ... in` loop like a list or tuple, it must implement an `__iter__()` method that returns an iterator object. Then, Python's `for` loop will repeatedly call the iterator object's `__next__()` method to retrieve values until a `StopIteration` error occurs.

Let's use the Fibonacci sequence as an example:

```python
class Fib(object):
    def __init__(self):
        self.a, self.b = 0, 1  # Initialize two counters

    def __iter__(self):
        return self  # The instance itself is the iterator

    def __next__(self):
        self.a, self.b = self.b, self.a + self.b  # Calculate the next value
        if self.a > 100000:  # Exit loop condition
            raise StopIteration()
        return self.a  # Return the next value
```

Now, we can use the `Fib` instance in a `for` loop:

```python
for n in Fib():
    print(n)
```

**`__getitem__`**

While `Fib` instances can be iterated over with `for` loops and look a bit like lists, you cannot treat them as lists for indexing. To behave like a list, the class needs to implement the `__getitem__()` method:

```python
class Fib(object):
    def __getitem__(self, n):
        a, b = 1, 1
        for x in range(n):
            a, b = b, a + b
        return a
```

Now you can access elements by index. But to handle slices, you'll need to detect if the `__getitem__()` argument is an `int` or a `slice` object and handle each accordingly.

Implementing these methods, our classes can behave just like Python's built-in list, tuple, and dict, thanks to the dynamic nature of the language and the "duck typing" philosophy.