
**Three kinds of data warehouse applications** _(in order of increasing sophistication)_

(1) <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Information processing</mark>

-   <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">supports querying, basic statistical analysis, and reporting using crosstabs, tables, charts and graphs</mark>
    -   provides information directly stored or aggregated.

(2) <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Analytical processing</mark>: _Online analytical processing (OLAP)_  

-   multidimensional analysis of data warehouse data.
    -   supports <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">basic OLAP operations, slice-dice, drilling, pivoting</mark>.
    -   derives information summarised at multiple granularites from user specified subsets (i.e user-specified concepts).

(3) <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">multidimensional data mining</mark>:  also called _Exploratory multidimensional data mining_, _Online Analytical Mining_,  and _OLAM_  

-   knowledge discovery from hidden patterns
    -   Many of the data mining methods covered in the course are implemented directly in warehouse platforms, which can assist in mining by easing data discovery and data preparation by close integration with mining. 
    -   <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">supports finding associations, constructing analytical models, performing classification and prediction, and presenting the mining results using visualization tools</mark>
    -   _automated_ discovery of implicit patterns
    -   <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">integrates OLAP with data mining; OLAP can be used for inital exploration</mark>
    -   benefits from the high quality of data warehouse data
    -   information processing infrastructure of the data warehouse can be used (access, APIs, storage, security, maintenance etc).

---

The typical OLAP operations are implemented in OLAP servers.

The SQL standard also defines some OLAP operators but these are generally implemented inconsistently in relational databases.

<mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">A common architecture for multidimensional cube operations is to extend and optimise relational architecture</mark> to form a **ROLAP** (i.e Relational OLAP) server which is likely to rely on a _star schema_ (+snowflake, fact constellation)  database structure. A  form of this highly specialised for ROLAP may drop support for common OLTP functions.

Alternatively, a **MOLAP** (Multidimensional OLAP) server uses a very different column-oriented data storage architecture, <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">which is particularly well suited to optimise rapid access to aggregate data and to storage of  sparse cubes.
</mark>
Finally, a hybrid architecture **HOLAP** (Hybrid OLAP)  server combines ROLAP and MOLAP, with detailed data in a relational database and aggregations in a MOLAP store. This may have the performance advantages of each.

