
### Character Count
Using a <mark style="background: #CACFD9A6;">counting field in the frame header</mark> to indicate the number of characters within the frame, when the destination node receives the byte count value, it knows the number of bytes that follow, thus determining the end position of the frame (the byte count provided includes the byte occupied by the counting field itself). The biggest problem with this method is that if the counting field contains an error, i.e., loses the basis for dividing frame boundaries, the receiving party cannot determine the end of the transmitted frame and the start of the next frame, causing loss of synchronization between the sender and receiver.

### Character Padding with Delimiters
The character padding method uses specific<mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;"> characters as delimiters</mark> to mark the start (DLE STX) and end (DLE ETX) of a frame. To prevent special characters appearing in the data from being mistaken as frame delimiters, an escape character (DLE) is inserted before the special delimiter to differentiate it (p.s. The escape character is a control character in ASCII, represented as a single character), enabling transparent transmission of data. When the receiver encounters the escape character, it knows that the following characters are data information rather than control information. If the data segment of the frame contains the DLE character, the sender inserts an additional DLE character before each DLE character. The receiver, upon receiving the data, automatically removes the inserted DLE character, resulting in the original data being preserved.


### Bit Stuffing with Flag
The bit stuffing method allows data frames to contain an arbitrary number of bits, and it also permits each character's encoding to have an arbitrary number of bits. It uses a specific bit pattern, namely 01111110, to mark the start and end of a frame. To prevent the occurrence of the bit stream 01111110 within the data from being mistaken as frame delimiters, <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">the data link layer of the sender automatically inserts a 0 bit after encountering five consecutive 1 bits in the data. The receiver performs the reverse operation, automatically removing the following 0 bit whenever it detects five consecutive 1 bits, thereby restoring the original information</mark>. Bit stuffing is easily implemented in hardware and offers better performance compared to character padding methods.

  
### Violation Encoding
In physical layer bit encoding, violation encoding methods are commonly used. For example, Manchester encoding encodes '1' as a "high-low" voltage pair and encodes data bit '0' as a "low-high" voltage pair. The voltage pairs "high-high" and "low-low" are considered violations (i.e., not utilized) in terms of data bits. These violations can be used to delineate the start and end of a frame. This method is employed in the IEEE 802 standard for local area networks.

The violation encoding method achieves transparency in data transmission without the need for any padding or counting. However, it is only applicable in specific encoding environments that utilize redundant encoding.

---

Due to the vulnerability of the counting field in character count methods and the complexity and incompatibility of character padding methods, the most commonly used framing methods nowadays are **bit stuffing and violation encoding**.