Many Java programs need to read configuration files at startup. For example, reading configurations from a `.properties` file:

```java
String conf = "C:\\conf\\default.properties";
try (InputStream input = new FileInputStream(conf)) {
    // TODO:
}
```

For this code to execute properly, a `conf` directory must be created on the C drive, and a `default.properties` file must be placed inside that directory. However, the path is different on Linux systems compared to Windows.

Therefore, reading a configuration file from a fixed directory on the disk is not a good approach.

Is there a way to read files that is independent of the file path?

We know that Java's directories for storing `.class` files or jar packages can also contain any other type of file, such as:

- Configuration files, e.g., `.properties`;
- Image files, e.g., `.jpg`;
- Text files, e.g., `.txt`, `.csv`;
- ...

Reading files from the classpath avoids the problem of inconsistent file paths across different environments. If we place the `default.properties` file in the classpath, we don't have to worry about its actual storage path.

Resources in the classpath always start with a `/`. We can obtain the current `Class` object and then call `getResourceAsStream()` to directly read any resource file from the classpath:

```java
try (InputStream input = getClass().getResourceAsStream("/default.properties")) {
    // TODO:
}
```

A crucial point to note when calling `getResourceAsStream()` is that it will return `null` if the resource file does not exist. Therefore, we need to check whether the returned `InputStream` is `null`. If it is `null`, it means the resource file was not found in the classpath:

```java
try (InputStream input = getClass().getResourceAsStream("/default.properties")) {
    if (input != null) {
        // TODO:
    }
}
```

By placing the default configuration inside the jar package and reading an optional configuration file from the external file system, we can have both a default configuration file and allow users to modify the configuration:

```java
Properties props = new Properties();
props.load(inputStreamFromClassPath("/default.properties"));
props.load(inputStreamFromFile("./conf.properties"));
```

Reading configuration files in this manner makes the application startup more flexible.