Reader is another input stream interface provided by Java's IO library. The difference between Reader and InputStream is that InputStream is a byte stream, i.e., it reads by byte, while Reader is a character stream, i.e., it reads by char:

| InputStream            | Reader               |
| ---------------------- | -------------------- |
| Byte stream, by byte   | Character stream, by char |
| Read byte (-1, 0~255): `int read()` | Read character (-1, 0~65535): `int read()` |
| Read to byte array: `int read(byte[] b)` | Read to char array: `int read(char[] c)` |

`java.io.Reader` is the superclass of all character input streams. Its most important method is:

```java
public int read() throws IOException;
```

This method reads the next character of the character stream and returns the character represented as an `int`, ranging from 0 to 65535. If it has reached the end, it returns -1.

**FileReader**

`FileReader` is a subclass of `Reader`. It can open a file and get a `Reader`. The following code demonstrates how to completely read all characters of a `FileReader`:

```java
public void readFile() throws IOException {
    // Create a FileReader object:
    Reader reader = new FileReader("src/readme.txt"); // The character encoding is ???
    for (;;) {
        int n = reader.read(); // Repeatedly call read() method, until it returns -1
        if (n == -1) {
            break;
        }
        System.out.println((char)n); // Print char
    }
    reader.close(); // Close stream
}
```

If we are reading a pure ASCII encoded text file, the above code works without problems. But if the file contains Chinese characters, it will result in garbled text because `FileReader`'s default encoding is system-dependent, e.g., Windows system's default encoding might be GBK, opening a UTF-8 encoded text file would result in garbled text.

To avoid garbled text issues, we need to specify the encoding when creating `FileReader`:

```java
Reader reader = new FileReader("src/readme.txt", StandardCharsets.UTF_8);
```

Similar to `InputStream`, `Reader` is also a resource that needs to be correctly closed when an error occurs. Therefore, we need to use `try (resource)` to ensure `Reader` is correctly closed whether or not there is an IO error:

```java
try (Reader reader = new FileReader("src/readme.txt", StandardCharsets.UTF_8)) {
    // TODO
}
```

`Reader` also provides a method to read several characters at once and fill them into a `char[]` array:

```java
public int read(char[] c) throws IOException
```

It returns the actual number of characters read, up to the length of the `char[]` array. It returns -1 if the stream ends.

Using this method, we can set a buffer first, then try to fill the buffer as much as possible each time:

```java
public void readFile() throws IOException {
    try (Reader reader = new FileReader("src/readme.txt", StandardCharsets.UTF_8)) {
        char[] buffer = new char[1000];
        int n;
        while ((n = reader.read(buffer)) != -1) {
            System.out.println("read " + n + " chars.");
        }
    }
}
```

**CharArrayReader**

`CharArrayReader` can simulate a `Reader` in memory, essentially turning a `char[]` array into a `Reader`, similar to `ByteArrayInputStream`:

```java
try (Reader reader = new CharArrayReader("Hello".toCharArray())) {
}
```

**StringReader**

`StringReader` can directly use a `String` as the data source, almost identical to `CharArrayReader`:

```java
try (Reader reader = new StringReader("Hello")) {
}
```

**InputStreamReader**

What is the relationship between `Reader` and `InputStream`?

Besides the special `CharArrayReader` and `StringReader`, ordinary `Reader`s are actually based on `InputStream` construction, as `Reader` needs to read byte streams (byte) from `InputStream` first, then convert them to char according to the encoding set, thus achieving character streams. If we look into the source code of `FileReader`, it internally holds a `FileInputStream`.

Since `Reader` essentially acts as a converter from byte to char based on `InputStream`, it's entirely feasible to convert any `InputStream` into a `Reader`. `InputStreamReader` is such a converter, turning any `InputStream` into a `Reader`. Example code is as follows:

```java
// Holding InputStream:
InputStream input = new FileInputStream("

src/readme.txt");
// Converted to Reader:
Reader reader = new InputStreamReader(input, "UTF-8");
```

When constructing `InputStreamReader`, we need to pass in `InputStream` and specify the encoding to get a `Reader` object. The above code can be rewritten more succinctly using `try (resource)` as follows:

```java
try (Reader reader = new InputStreamReader(new FileInputStream("src/readme.txt"), "UTF-8")) {
    // TODO:
}
```

This code is essentially one way to implement `FileReader`.

When using the `try (resource)` structure, close the outer `Reader` object is enough since closing it will automatically call the `InputStream`'s `close()` method internally, ensuring there are no resource leaks.