
----

### Variable Definition

-   **Definition Form**: Type specifier + a list of one or more variable names. For example, `int sum = 0, value, units_sold = 0;`
-   **Initialization**: An object is given a specific value when it is created.
    -   **Initialization is not assignment!**:
    -   Initialization = creating a variable + giving an initial value
    -   Assignment = erasing an object's current value + replacing it with a new value
    -   **List Initialization**: Using curly braces `{}`, for example `int units_sold{0};`
    -   Default Initialization: If a default value is not specified when a variable is defined, it will be default initialized. **Built-in type variables inside a function body will not be initialized.**
    -   It is recommended to initialize every built-in type variable.


### Variable **Declaration**

-   To support separate compilation, `C++` distinguishes between declaration and definition. **Declaration** makes the name known to the program. **Definition** creates the entity associated with the name.
-   **extern**: it only indicates that the variable is defined elsewhere.
-   Declaration without definition: Add the keyword `extern` before the variable name, such as `extern int i;`. However, if it includes an initial value, it becomes a definition: `extern double pi = 3.14;`
-   Variables can only be defined once but can be declared multiple times. The definition only occurs in one file, and other files need to declare the variable when using it.
-   **Scope** of names `{}`
    -   **Define the variable when it is first used**.
    -   Nested scopes
        -   When both global and local variables are present, the locally defined variable can explicitly access the global variable `reused` within its scope by using `::reused`.
        -   **However, try not to use the same-named local variable when accessing the global variable.**
