A pointer is a composite data type that "points to" another type.

## Definition

A pointer type is defined as follows: `int *ip1;`. Reading from right to left, `ip1` is a pointer to an `int` type.

---

## Storing the Address of an Object

A pointer stores the address of a certain object. The address of an object can be obtained as follows:

```C++
int i = 42; 
int *p = &i;
```

## Matching Pointer Type and Object Type

The type of the pointer and the type of the object it points to must match (both must be of the same type such as int, double, etc.).

## States of a Pointer's Value

There are four states of a pointer's value:

1.  Points to an object
2.  Points to the next position after the object
3.  Null pointer
4.  Invalid pointer

Note: Operating on an invalid pointer will cause an error. Although the second and third states are valid, they are theoretically not allowed.

## Accessing the Object

To access the object a pointer points to, use the dereference operator `*` as follows:

```C++
cout << *p;
```

This outputs the data of the object pointed to by `p`.

## Null Pointer

A null pointer does not point to any object. A null pointer can be defined as follows:

```C++
int *p = nullptr;
```

## Pointers vs. References

A reference is not an object in and of itself. Once a reference is defined, it cannot be bound to another object. On the other hand, pointers do not have this restriction and can be used like variables.

## Assignment Statement

The assignment statement always changes the object on the **left side**.

## `void*` Pointer

A `void*` pointer can store the address of any object. However, since it has no type, it can only operate on memory space and cannot access the object it points to.

```C++
#include <stdio.h>

int main() {
  int num = 5;
  void* ptr = &num;

  printf("Address stored in void* pointer: %p\n", ptr);

  // Cannot access the value stored at the address
  // Uncommenting the line below will result in a compile error
  //printf("Value stored at address: %d\n", *ptr);

  return 0;
}
```

In the example, we create an `int` variable `num` with the value `5` and store its address in a `void*` pointer `ptr`. When we try to access the value stored at the address using `*ptr`, the code will not compile because `void*` has no type information and cannot be dereferenced.


## Strict Matching of Other Pointer Types

Other pointer types must strictly match the object they point to.

## Subtraction of Two Pointers

The result of subtracting two pointers has type `ptrdiff_t`.





