
## IAM

IAM (Identity and Access Management) is a service provided by AWS that allows you to manage access to AWS resources securely.

### Users

IAM users are entities that you create in IAM to represent the people, applications, or services that need to interact with your AWS resources. Each user is assigned a unique username and password or access key, which is used to authenticate and authorize access to the resources.

### Groups

IAM groups are collections of IAM users, which allow you to manage permissions for multiple users simultaneously. By assigning permissions to groups, you can simplify the process of managing permissions across your AWS resources.

### Policies

IAM policies are JSON documents that define permissions for users, groups, or roles. A policy can be attached to a user, group, or role, and specifies what actions are allowed or denied on which AWS resources. You can create custom policies, or use one of the many pre-defined policies provided by AWS.

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "s3:*",
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
```

In addition to users, groups, and policies, IAM provides several other features, including:

-   Roles: IAM roles allow you to delegate access to AWS resources to an AWS service or to another AWS account.
-   Multi-factor authentication: IAM supports multi-factor authentication (MFA), which adds an additional layer of security to user sign-ins and API access.
-   Access keys: IAM access keys are used to programmatically access AWS resources through the AWS CLI, SDKs, and other tools.

By using IAM, you can ensure that only authorized users and applications have access to your AWS resources, and that access is granted based on the principle of least privilege.

----

## Generally will be using the IAM user for studying AWS.
 