In a Java program, a thread object can only invoke the `start()` method once to start a new thread and execute the `run()` method in this new thread. Once the `run()` method completes, the thread ends. Therefore, the states of a Java thread include the following:

- **New**: A newly created thread that has not yet started.
- **Runnable**: A running thread that is executing its `run()` method.
- **Blocked**: A running thread that is suspended due to some operation being blocked.
- **Waiting**: A running thread that is waiting due to some operation.
- **Timed Waiting**: A running thread that is waiting for a specific waiting time due to calling the `sleep()` method.
- **Terminated**: The thread has terminated because the `run()` method has completed.

These states can be represented in a state transition diagram as follows:

```
         ┌─────────────┐
         │     New     │
         └─────────────┘
                │
                ▼
┌ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ┐
 ┌─────────────┐ ┌─────────────┐
││  Runnable   │ │   Blocked   ││
 └─────────────┘ └─────────────┘
│┌─────────────┐ ┌─────────────┐│
 │   Waiting   │ │Timed Waiting│
│└─────────────┘ └─────────────┘│
 ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─
                │
                ▼
         ┌─────────────┐
         │ Terminated  │
         └─────────────┘
```

After a thread is started, it can switch between Runnable, Blocked, Waiting, and Timed Waiting states until it finally becomes Terminated.

Reasons for thread termination include:

- Normal termination: The `run()` method returns due to a return statement.
- Unexpected termination: The `run()` method causes the thread to terminate due to an uncaught exception.
- Forced termination: Calling the `stop()` method on a Thread instance (strongly discouraged).

A thread can also wait for another thread to finish running. For example, after the main thread starts the `t` thread, it can use `t.join()` to wait for the `t` thread to end before continuing:

```java
// Multithreading
public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) throws InterruptedException {
        Thread t = new Thread(() -> {
            System.out.println("hello");
        });
        System.out.println("start");
        t.start();
        t.join();
        System.out.println("end");
    }
}
```

When the main thread calls the `join()` method on the `t` thread object, the main thread will wait for the thread represented by the variable `t` to end before continuing. Thus, the order of printing in the above code can be assured: the main thread prints "start" first, the `t` thread then prints "hello", and finally, the main thread prints "end".

If the `t` thread has already ended, calling `join()` on instance `t` will return immediately. Moreover, the overloaded method `join(long)` allows specifying a waiting time, and it will no longer wait after the specified waiting time has passed.