The entry point of a Java program is initiated by the JVM launching the main thread, which in turn can start other threads. When all threads have terminated, the JVM exits, ending the process.

If a thread does not exit, the JVM process will not terminate. Therefore, it's crucial to ensure that all threads can end in a timely manner.

However, some threads are designed to run indefinitely, such as a thread that triggers a task at scheduled intervals:

```java
class TimerThread extends Thread {
    @Override
    public void run() {
        while (true) {
            System.out.println(LocalTime.now());
            try {
                Thread.sleep(1000);
            } catch (InterruptedException e) {
                break;
            }
        }
    }
}
```

If this thread doesn't terminate, the JVM process cannot end. The question is, who is responsible for ending this thread?

Often, there's no designated owner to terminate these types of threads. Yet, when other threads have finished executing, the JVM process must end. How is this handled?

The solution is to use **daemon threads**.

Daemon threads serve other threads. In the JVM, once all non-daemon threads have completed, the virtual machine will exit regardless of the presence of daemon threads.

Thus, when the JVM exits, there's no need to worry about whether daemon threads have finished.

How do you create a daemon thread? The method is the same as for regular threads, but before calling the `start()` method, call `setDaemon(true)` to mark the thread as a daemon thread:

```java
Thread t = new MyThread();
t.setDaemon(true);
t.start();
```

When writing code for daemon threads, it's important to note: daemon threads should not hold any resources that need to be closed, such as open files. This is because there's no opportunity for daemon threads to close these resources when the virtual machine exits, which can lead to data loss.