Java programs rely on `synchronized` for thread synchronization, and it's crucial which object is locked.

Letting threads choose the lock object can make the code logic chaotic and hinder encapsulation. A better approach is to encapsulate the `synchronized` logic. For instance, consider the following counter implementation:

```java
public class Counter {
    private int count = 0;

    public void add(int n) {
        synchronized(this) {
            count += n;
        }
    }

    public void dec(int n) {
        synchronized(this) {
            count -= n;
        }
    }

    public int get() {
        return count;
    }
}
```

This way, threads calling `add()` or `dec()` methods don't need to worry about synchronization logic, as the `synchronized` code block is internal to these methods. Additionally, `synchronized` locks the current instance (`this`), allowing multiple `Counter` instances to operate independently and concurrently:

```java
var c1 = new Counter();
var c2 = new Counter();

// Threads operating on c1:
new Thread(() -> {
    c1.add();
}).start();
new Thread(() -> {
    c1.dec();
}).start();

// Threads operating on c2:
new Thread(() -> {
    c2.add();
}).start();
new Thread(() -> {
    c2.dec();
}).start();
```

The `Counter` class can now be correctly used in a multithreaded context.

<mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">If a class is designed to allow correct access by multiple threads, it's considered "thread-safe"</mark>, like the `Counter` class above. Java's standard library `java.lang.StringBuffer` is also thread-safe.

Immutable classes like `String`, `Integer`, `LocalDate`, with all member variables being final, are thread-safe because they are read-only in a multithreaded context.

Lastly, classes like `Math`, which only provide static methods and contain no member variables, are thread-safe.

Except for these few cases, most classes, like `ArrayList`, are not thread-safe, meaning they shouldn't be modified in a multithreaded context. However, if all threads are only reading and not writing, then `ArrayList` can be safely shared between threads.

By default, unless specified otherwise, a class is considered not thread-safe.

Observing the `Counter` code:

```java
public class Counter {
    public void add(int n) {
        synchronized(this) {
            count += n;
        }
    }
    ...
}
```

When locking is done on the `this` instance, the method can be marked with `synchronized`. The following two methods are equivalent:

```java
public void add(int n) {
    synchronized(this) { // Locking this
        count += n;
    } // Unlocking
}

public synchronized void add(int n) { // Locking this
    count += n;
} // Unlocking
```

Therefore, methods marked with `synchronized` are synchronized methods, indicating the whole method must lock the `this` instance.

What about static synchronized methods? What object do they lock?

```java
public synchronized static void test(int n) {
    ...
}
```

Since static methods do not have a `this` instance, they lock the class's `Class` instance created by the JVM. Therefore, a synchronized static method is equivalent to:

```java
public class Counter {
    public static void test(int n) {
        synchronized(Counter.class) {
            ...
        }
    }
}
```

For `Counter`'s `get()` method:

```java
public class Counter {
    private int count;

    public int get() {
        return count;
    }
    ...
}
```

It doesn't need synchronization because reading an `int` variable doesn't require it. However, slight modifications that return an object containing two `int`s would require synchronization.