In Java programs, `synchronized` resolves issues of multiple threads competing for resources. For example, for a task manager where multiple threads are simultaneously adding tasks to a queue, we can use `synchronized` to lock:

```java
class TaskQueue {
    Queue<String> queue = new LinkedList<>();

    public synchronized void addTask(String s) {
        this.queue.add(s);
    }
}
```

However, `synchronized` does not solve the problem of coordination among multiple threads.

Taking the above `TaskQueue` as an example, let’s also write a `getTask()` method to retrieve the first task in the queue:

```java
class TaskQueue {
    Queue<String> queue = new LinkedList<>();

    public synchronized void addTask(String s) {
        this.queue.add(s);
    }

    public synchronized String getTask() {
        while (queue.isEmpty()) {
        }
        return queue.remove();
    }
}
```

The code seems fine: `getTask()` checks if the queue is empty and, if so, loops until another thread adds a task to the queue. However, the `while()` loop will never exit because the thread executing `while()` has already acquired the `this` lock at the `getTask()` entry. Other threads cannot call `addTask()` because it also requires acquiring the `this` lock.

Thus, executing the above code leads to 100% CPU usage due to an infinite loop in `getTask()`.

We want the execution to allow:

- Thread 1 can call `addTask()` to continuously add tasks to the queue.
- Thread 2 can call `getTask()` to retrieve tasks from the queue. If the queue is empty, `getTask()` should wait until there's at least one task in the queue before returning.

The principle for coordinating multiple threads is: when the condition is not met, the thread enters a waiting state; when the condition is met, the thread is awakened to continue executing the task.

For `TaskQueue`, let's modify `getTask()` so that the thread enters a waiting state when the condition is not met:

```java
public synchronized String getTask() {
    while (queue.isEmpty()) {
        this.wait();
    }
    return queue.remove();
}
```

When a thread executes the `while` loop in `getTask()`, it has already acquired the `this` lock. At that point, if the condition is true (the queue is empty), the thread will execute `this.wait()` and enter a waiting state.

The key here is: the `wait()` method must be called on the lock object currently held, which in this case is the `this` lock.

After calling `wait()`, the thread enters a waiting state and `wait()` will not return until some future moment when the thread is awakened by another thread, allowing `wait()` to return and then continue executing the next statement.

A critical point about the execution mechanism of `wait()` is that it is a complex native method defined in the `Object` class by the JVM's C code. It must be called within a `synchronized` block because, upon calling `wait()`, it releases the lock acquired by the thread, and when `wait()` returns, the thread attempts to reacquire the lock.

Thus, `wait()` can only be called on the lock object. In `getTask()`, since we acquired the `this` lock, we can only call `wait()` on this object:

```java
public synchronized String getTask() {
    while (queue.isEmpty()) {
        // Release the this lock:
        this.wait();
        // Reacquire the this lock
    }
    return queue.remove();
}
```

When a thread waits with `this.wait()`, it releases the `this` lock, allowing other threads to acquire the `this` lock in `addTask()`.

The second issue we face is how to wake up the waiting thread and return from `wait()`. The answer is to call the `notify()` method on the same lock object. Let's modify `addTask()` as follows:

```java
public synchronized void addTask(String s) {
    this.queue.add(s);
    this.notify(); // Wake up the thread waiting on this lock
}
```

Note that after adding a task to the queue, the thread immediately calls `notify()` on the `this` lock object, which wakes up a thread that is waiting on the `this.wait()` (inside `getTask()`), allowing the waiting thread to return from `wait()`.

Let's look at a complete example:

```java
import java.util.*;
public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) throws InterruptedException {
        var q = new TaskQueue();
        var ts = new ArrayList<Thread>();
        for (int i=0; i<5; i++) {
           

 var t = new Thread() {
                public void run() {
                    // Execute task:
                    while (true) {
                        try {
                            String s = q.getTask();
                            System.out.println("execute task: " + s);
                        } catch (InterruptedException e) {
                            return;
                        }
                    }
                }
            };
            t.start();
            ts.add(t);
        }
        var add = new Thread(() -> {
            for (int i=0; i<10; i++) {
                // Add task:
                String s = "t-" + Math.random();
                System.out.println("add task: " + s);
                q.addTask(s);
                try { Thread.sleep(100); } catch(InterruptedException e) {}
            }
        });
        add.start();
        add.join();
        Thread.sleep(100);
        for (var t : ts) {
            t.interrupt();
        }
    }
}

class TaskQueue {
    Queue<String> queue = new LinkedList<>();

    public synchronized void addTask(String s) {
        this.queue.add(s);
        this.notifyAll();
    }

    public synchronized String getTask() throws InterruptedException {
        while (queue.isEmpty()) {
            this.wait();
        }
        return queue.remove();
    }
}
```

In this example, the focus is on the `addTask()` method, which internally calls `this.notifyAll()` instead of `this.notify()`. `notifyAll()` wakes up all threads currently waiting on this lock, while `notify()` only wakes up one (which one depends on the OS and has some randomness). This is because there may be multiple threads waiting in `wait()` inside `getTask()`, and using `notifyAll()` wakes them all up at once. Generally, `notifyAll()` is safer. Sometimes, if the code logic is not carefully considered, using `notify()` might only wake up one thread, while others may never wake up.

However, note that when returning from `wait()`, it's necessary to reacquire the `this` lock. If three threads are awakened, only one can acquire the `this` lock after the thread executing `addTask()` finishes and releases the `this` lock, while the other two continue to wait.

Also, we use a `while()` loop to call `wait()`, not an `if` statement:

```java
public synchronized String getTask() throws InterruptedException {
    if (queue.isEmpty()) {
        this.wait();
    }
    return queue.remove();
}
```

This approach is incorrect because when `wait()` returns, it needs to reacquire the `this` lock again. After being awakened, only one thread can acquire the `this` lock. If `queue.remove()` is executed, there may no longer be any elements in the queue at that point. Thus, always wait in a `while()` loop, and each time you're awakened and acquire the `this` lock, you must check again:

```java
while (queue.isEmpty()) {
    this.wait();
}
```

Correctly writing multithreaded code is extremely difficult. The conditions that need to be carefully considered are numerous, and any oversight can lead to abnormal operation of multithreaded execution.