An interface in Java is a completely abstract class that is used to <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">group related methods with empty bodies</mark>. Interfaces are declared using the `interface` keyword and can only contain method signatures and static methods (with a few exceptions).

#### Example of complete abstract class
```java
abstract class Person {
    public abstract void run();
    public abstract String getName();
}
```
#### Update to the Interface version
```java
interface Person {
    void run();
    String getName();
}
```

- <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">All methods in an interface are implicitly public and abstract (except static and default methods)</mark>.
- An interface <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">cannot contain instance fields</mark>.

### Implementing Interfaces

A class implements an interface, thereby inheriting the abstract methods of the interface.

```java
class Student implements Person {
    private String name;

    @Override
    public void run() {
        // implementation code
    }

    @Override
    public String getName() {
        return this.name;
    }
}
```

### Multiple Interfaces

A class can implement multiple interfaces, which is a way Java achieves multiple inheritances.

```java
class Student implements Person, Hello {
    // implementation of all abstract methods
}
```

### Interface Inheritance

Interfaces can inherit from other interfaces using the `extends` keyword. The child interface inherits the methods of the parent interface.

```java
interface Hello {
    void hello();
}

interface Person extends Hello {
    void run();
    String getName();
}
```

### Abstract Class vs. Interface

- An abstract class can have member <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">variables and concrete methods, while an interface cannot (except static and default methods)</mark>.
- A class can extend only one abstract class but can implement multiple interfaces.

### Default Methods

Introduced in Java 8, default methods are methods in an interface that have a default implementation. They can be overridden in implementing classes.

#### Example of Default Method
```java
interface Person {
    default void run() {
        System.out.println("Default running behavior");
    }
}
```

- Default methods help to add new methods to interfaces without breaking the existing implementation of these interfaces.

### Practical Usage

- Abstract classes are used when there are shared methods or fields between different classes.
- Interfaces are used to define a contract (like behavior) that implementing classes must fulfill.
- Default methods in interfaces allow flexibility to add new methods to interfaces without breaking existing implementations.

By using abstract classes and interfaces effectively, Java achieves a form of multiple inheritances.