
A B+ tree is a variant of the B-tree that is optimized for disk access. It has a similar structure to the B-tree, but with all the data stored in the leaf nodes. The internal nodes contain only keys and pointers to other nodes. The B+ tree is designed to minimize the number of disk accesses required to retrieve a range of values by using a linked list of leaf nodes. It has a complexity of O(log n) for search, insert, and delete operations.

B+ tree with order 3:

```
                    [10, 20]
                    /     \
           [2, 4, 6]      [30, 40, 50]
          /   |   \             |    \
        [1] [3] [5] [7, 8, 9] [21, 22] [35, 38, 42]
```


The main difference between B-tree and B+ tree is in how they store keys and pointers in their nodes.

In a B-tree, both keys and pointers to child nodes are stored in each node. This means that a B-tree node may contain both data and pointers to other nodes. The number of keys stored in each node is limited by the order of the tree, and nodes may have fewer keys than the order.

In contrast, a B+ tree only stores keys in its internal nodes, while pointers to child nodes are only stored in leaf nodes. This means that all data is stored in leaf nodes, and internal nodes only act as index structures to direct search to the appropriate leaf node. In addition, all leaf nodes in a B+ tree are linked together, forming a sequential list of data entries.

The advantage of a B+ tree over a B-tree is that the B+ tree can support efficient range queries and sequential access to data, since all the data is stored in contiguous leaf nodes. This makes B+ trees a popular choice for database systems and file systems.

In general, B-trees are suitable for storing small amounts of data in memory, while B+ trees are more suitable for storing larger amounts of data on disk or in other secondary storage devices.