In Java, many class definitions follow a common convention:

- They have several private instance fields.
- They provide public methods to read and write these instance fields.

For example:

```java
public class Person {
    private String name;
    private int age;

    public String getName() { return this.name; }
    public void setName(String name) { this.name = name; }

    public int getAge() { return this.age; }
    public void setAge(int age) { this.age = age; }
}
```

If the getter and setter methods follow the naming convention below:

- Getter method: `public Type getXyz()`
- Setter method: `public void setXyz(Type value)`

Then such a class is known as a "JavaBean."

In the naming convention, for boolean fields, the getter method is usually named `isXyz()`, and the setter method follows the same pattern:

- Getter method: `public boolean isChild()`
- Setter method: `public void setChild(boolean value)`

A group of corresponding getter and setter methods is referred to as a "property." For example, the "name" property:

- Corresponding getter method: `String getName()`
- Corresponding setter method: `setName(String)`

Properties that only have a getter method are called "read-only" properties. For example, defining a read-only property for "age":

- Corresponding getter method: `int getAge()`
- No corresponding setter method (setAge(int)).

It's evident that read-only properties are more common, while write-only properties (having only a setter) are not typical.

Properties can be defined with only getter and setter methods without the need for corresponding fields. For example, a read-only property "child" can be defined as follows:

```java
public class Person {
    private String name;
    private int age;

    public String getName() { return this.name; }
    public void setName(String name) { this.name = name; }

    public int getAge() { return this.age; }
    public void setAge(int age) { this.age = age; }

    public boolean isChild() {
        return age <= 6;
    }
}
```

It can be observed that getter and setter methods are a form of data encapsulation.

Purposes of JavaBeans:
- JavaBeans are primarily used to transport data, which means grouping a set of data into a JavaBean for ease of transmission.
- JavaBeans can also be conveniently analyzed by IDE tools, which can generate code for reading and writing properties, making them useful for visual design in graphical user interfaces.

Through IDE tools, you can quickly generate getters and setters. For example, in Eclipse, you can start with the following code:

```java
public class Person {
    private String name;
    private int age;
}
```

Then, right-click, select "Source," and choose "Generate Getters and Setters" from the popup menu. In the dialog that appears, select the fields for which you want to generate getter and setter methods, and click "OK." The IDE will automatically generate all the method code.

Enumerating JavaBean Properties:
To enumerate all the properties of a JavaBean, you can use the `Introspector` provided by the Java core library:

```java
import java.beans.*;
public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {
        BeanInfo info = Introspector.getBeanInfo(Person.class);
        for (PropertyDescriptor pd : info.getPropertyDescriptors()) {
            System.out.println(pd.getName());
            System.out.println("  " + pd.getReadMethod());
            System.out.println("  " + pd.getWriteMethod());
        }
    }
}

class Person {
    private String name;
    private int age;

    public String getName() {
        return name;
    }

    public void setName(String name) {
        this.name = name;
    }

    public int getAge() {
        return age;
    }

    public void setAge(int age) {
        this.age = age;
    }
}
```

Running the above code will list all the properties along with their corresponding read and write methods. Note that the "class" property is inherited from `Object` and includes the `getClass()` method.

In summary:
- JavaBeans are classes that adhere to naming conventions and define properties using getter and setter methods.
- The term "property" is a general description and is not mandated by Java syntax.
- IDEs can help generate getter and setter methods quickly.
- You can use `Introspector.getBeanInfo()` to obtain a list of properties.