
One of the challenges in data mining is that <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">automated tool</mark>s can typically generate thousands or millions of patterns. Ultimately, <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">not all can be used</mark>, so data miners and their tools need to be able to select _interesting_ patterns for further study and possible application.

Typically a pattern is **interesting** if

-   it is <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">easily understood</mark> by humans working in the domain of application
-   it is <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">_valid_ (true)</mark>, with some required degree of _certainty_, on sample data and real  data in practice
-   it is potentially useful or actionable
-   it is novel, that is not already well known or else it validates a hypothesis that needed confirmation

An interesting pattern can be characterised as representing knowledge.

However, not all of these conditions are achieved by all mining methods, and not all these conditions _can_ be met in automated ways.

**Objective** and automatable measures of pattern interestingness do exist, based on <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">pattern structure and statistical measures</mark>.Commonly such a measure would need to exceed some user-selected _threshold_ to be considered interesting, or alternatively, just some user-selected number of the _best-ranked_ patterns by that measure are considered interesting.  

For example, _support_ and _confidence_  are used to assess <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">association rules</mark>. These indicate respectively  how much of the data the rule has any relevance to, and how much of the relevant data it is valid for. Coverage and accuracy  have respectively  similar roles for classification rules. The _simplicity_ of the pattern is commonly assesed, too. The formulation of these objective measures may be  specific to a mining method and is not directly comparable across methods.

**Subjective** measures of interestingness, based on <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">user beliefs about the data</mark>,  are also generally required. These may be domain-dependent and it is typically the task of a data miner (you!) to know enough about the domain of the data and the proposed application of the mining results to be able to apply judgement here.  Results will generally need to be communicated and shared with other domain experts prior to accepting and acting on them.

Subjectively, interesting patterns may be _unexpected (I did not know this!), actionable (I can use that result to change what we do),_ or _confirming (I had a hunch that might be true, but now I have evidence for it)_ 

It is highly desirable for data mining methods to generate only interesting patterns for users. It is also efficient for data mining methods to use concepts of interestingness internally during the search for patterns, so that computations that will result in uninteresting patterns need not be explored. This means that in order for a method to be  a  viable candidate for a data mining problem, the notion of interestingness built in to the method must be aligned to the user's concept of interestingness associated with the problem.

_Interestingness_, and how it can be used for efficient mining, is an important aspect of every data mining technique, and it affects the nature of problems to which the technique can be applied.