Java's annotations themselves have <mark style="background: #ABF7F7A6;">no impact on the logic of the code</mark>. Depending on the configuration of `@Retention`:

- Annotations of type `SOURCE` are discarded during the compilation phase;
- Annotations of type `CLASS` are only preserved in the class files and are not loaded into the JVM;
- Annotations of type `RUNTIME` are loaded into the JVM and can be read by the program during runtime.

How to use annotations is entirely determined by tools. Annotations of type `SOURCE` are primarily used by the compiler, hence we typically only use them, not write them. Annotations of type `CLASS` are mainly used by underlying tool libraries, involving class loading, which we rarely encounter. Only annotations of type `RUNTIME` are not only used but also often need to be written.

Therefore, we will only discuss how to read `RUNTIME` type annotations.

Since annotations are also a kind of class, and all annotations inherit from `java.lang.annotation.Annotation`, reading annotations requires the use of reflection API.

Java provides reflection API methods for reading Annotation including:

Checking if an annotation exists on a Class, Field, Method, or Constructor:

- `Class.isAnnotationPresent(Class)`
- `Field.isAnnotationPresent(Class)`
- `Method.isAnnotationPresent(Class)`
- `Constructor.isAnnotationPresent(Class)`

For example:

```java
// Check if @Report exists on the Person class:
Person.class.isAnnotationPresent(Report.class);
```

Reading an Annotation using reflection API:

- `Class.getAnnotation(Class)`
- `Field.getAnnotation(Class)`
- `Method.getAnnotation(Class)`
- `Constructor.getAnnotation(Class)`

For example:

```java
// Get the @Report annotation defined on Person:
Report report = Person.class.getAnnotation(Report.class);
int type = report.type();
String level = report.level();
```

There are two ways to read annotations using reflection API. The first method is to check if the Annotation exists, and if it does, read it directly:

```java
Class cls = Person.class;
if (cls.isAnnotationPresent(Report.class)) {
    Report report = cls.getAnnotation(Report.class);
    ...
}
```

The second method is to directly read the Annotation, which will return null if the Annotation does not exist:

```java
Class cls = Person.class;
Report report = cls.getAnnotation(Report.class);
if (report != null) {
   ...
}
```

Reading annotations on methods, fields, and constructors is similar to reading from the Class. However, reading annotations on method parameters is a bit more complicated, as method parameters themselves can be seen as an array, and each parameter can have multiple annotations, <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">so obtaining all annotations of a method parameter at once requires a two-dimensional array</mark>. For example, for the annotations defined on the following method:

```java
public void hello(@NotNull @Range(max=5) String name, @NotNull String prefix) {
}
```

To read the method parameter annotations, first obtain the Method instance using reflection, then read all annotations on the method parameters:

```java
// Get the Method instance:
Method m = ...
// Get all annotations of parameters:
Annotation[][] annos = m.getParameterAnnotations();
// All annotations of the first parameter (index 0):
Annotation[] annosOfName = annos[0];
for (Annotation anno : annosOfName) {
    if (anno instanceof Range r) { // @Range annotation
        r.max();
    }
    if (anno instanceof NotNull n) { // @NotNull annotation
        //
    }
}
```

**Using Annotations**
How annotations are used is completely decided by the program itself. For example, JUnit is a testing framework that automatically runs all methods marked with `@Test`.

Consider an `@Range` annotation intended to define the rules for a String field: the field length must meet the parameters defined by `@Range`:

```java
@Retention(RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME)
@Target(ElementType.FIELD)
public @interface Range {
    int min() default 0;
    int max() default 255;
}
```

In a JavaBean, we can use this annotation as follows:

```java
public class Person {
    @Range(min=1, max=20)
    public String name;

    @Range(max=10)
    public String city;
}
```

However, defining the annotation itself does not affect the program logic. We must write code ourselves to use the annotation. Here, we write a method to check a Person instance, verifying if the Person instance's String fields meet the `@Range` definition:

```java
void check(Person person) throws IllegalArgumentException, ReflectiveOperationException {
    // Iterate over all Fields:
    for (Field field : person.getClass().getFields()) {
        // Get the @Range defined on the Field:
        Range range = field.getAnnotation(Range.class);
        // If @Range exists:
       

 if (range != null) {
            // Get the Field's value:
            Object value = field.get(person);
            // If the value is a String:
            if (value instanceof String s) {
                // Check if the value meets the @Range's min/max:
                if (s.length() < range.min() || s.length() > range.max()) {
                    throw new IllegalArgumentException("Invalid field: " + field.getName());
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

In this way, by using the `@Range` annotation combined with the `check()` method, we can perform checks on Person instances. Note that the check logic is entirely written by us; the JVM does not automatically add any extra logic to annotations.