
### Register the Driver

```java
  Class.forName("com.mysql.cj.jdbc.Driver");
```

- In Java, when using JDBC (Java Database Connectivity) to connect to a database, you need to load a database-specific driver to communicate with the database. The purpose of loading the driver is to<mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;"> register the driver so that the JDBC API can recognize and interact</mark> with the specific database.

- Starting from JDK6, it is no longer necessary to explicitly call `Class.forName()` to load the JDBC driver. As long as the corresponding jar file is integrated into the classpath, the driver will be automatically registered during initialization.

### Connection

- The Connection interface is an important interface in the JDBC API, used to establish a communication channel with the database. In other words, if the Connection object is not null, it represents a database connection.
- When establishing a connection, you need to specify the database URL, username, and password parameters.
  - URL: `jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/a`
    - jdbc:`mysql://IP address:Port number/Database name?Parameter key-value pair 1&Parameter key-value pair 2`
- The `Connection` interface also manages transactions. The `Connection` interface provides `commit` and `rollback` methods for submitting and rolling back transactions.
- You can create a `Statement` object to execute SQL statements and interact with the database.
- When using JDBC technology, you must first obtain a Connection object. After use, resources must be released to avoid resource waste and leakage.

### Statement

- The `Statement` interface is used to execute SQL statements and interact with the database. It is an important interface in the JDBC API. Through the `Statement` object, you can send SQL statements to the database and obtain execution results.
- The results can be one or multiple results.
  - Add/Delete/Update: Single result of affected rows.
  - Query: Single row single column, multiple rows multiple columns, single row multiple columns, etc.
- However, the `Statement` interface has a problem of `SQL injection attacks`:
  - When using `Statement` to execute dynamically constructed SQL queries, it is often necessary to concatenate the query conditions with the SQL statement, directly generating the parameters and SQL statement together, allowing the SQL query condition to always be true to obtain results.

### PreparedStatement

- `PreparedStatement` is a sub-interface of the `Statement` interface, used to execute `precompiled` SQL queries, with the following functions:
  - Precompile SQL statements: When creating a PreparedStatement, the SQL statement is precompiled, meaning the SQL statement is already fixed.
  - Prevent SQL injection: `PreparedStatement` supports parameterized queries, <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">passing data as parameters into the SQL statement using the ? placeholder</mark>. The passed parameters are enclosed in single quotes '', treating whatever is passed as a value. This effectively prevents key words or values from causing SQL injection issues.
  - Performance improvement: PreparedStatement is a precompiled SQL statement. When the same SQL statement is executed multiple times, it <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">can be reused, eliminating the need to recompile</mark> and parse each time.
- Subsequent learning will be based on PreparedStatement implementation, which is safer and more efficient!

### ResultSet

- `ResultSet` is an interface in the JDBC API, representing the `result set returned from executing a query statement` in the database. It provides a way to traverse and access the query results.
- Traversing results: ResultSet can use the `next()` method to move the cursor to the next row in the result set, traversing the database query results row by row. The return type is boolean, where true indicates there is a next row, and false indicates there are no more rows.
- Fetching single column results: Single column data can be obtained using the getXxx method, which is an overloaded method that supports fetching by index and column name.
