
- <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">When dealing with big data, computational cost</mark> of all processing stages should be considered.
- Some measures of <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">data character, data summarization, and data pattern</mark> interestingness are computationally more difficult to compute than others.
- The classification of measure functions as <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">distributive, algebraic or holistic</mark> helps to understand their computational complexity.

#### Distributive
- A function is <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">distributive if the data is partitioned into n sets, and the function is applied to each of those sets</mark>.
- Then, suppose the function is applied to those n results, and the result is the same as applying the function to all of the data without partitioning.
- Examples include <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">count(), sum(), min(), max()</mark>.
- Such computations can be made efficient by distributing the computation.

#### Algebraic
- <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">A function is algebraic if it can be computed by a function with M arguments (where M is a bounded integer), each of which is obtained by applying a distributive function.</mark>
- Examples include <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">average(), min_N(), max_N(), standard_deviation()</mark>.
- Such computations can take advantage of the distributive sub-functions to be made efficient.

#### Holistic
- A function is holistic if there is <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">no constant bound on the storage size needed to describe sub-functions</mark>.
- There is no algebraic function with M arguments (where M is a bounded integer) that characterises the computation.
- Examples include <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">median(), mode(), rank()</mark>.
- Such computations are difficult to compute efficiently and often efficient approximations are used instead.

----

Exercises:

```
1.Suppose that the data for analysis includes the attribute age. The age values for the data tuples are (in increasing order) 
13, 15, 16, 16, 19, 20, 20, 21, 22, 22, 25, 25, 25, 25, 30, 33, 33, 35, 35, 35, 35, 36, 40, 45, 46, 52, 70.
  
(a) What is the mean of the data? What is the median?  
(b) What is the mode of the data? Comment on the data’s modality (i.e., bimodal, trimodal, etc.).  
(c) What is the midrange of the data?  
(d) Can you find (roughly) the first quartile (Q1) and the third quartile (Q3) of the data?  
(e) Give the five-number summary of the data.  
(f) Show a boxplot of the data.
```

(a) The mean can be calculated by summing up all the values and dividing by the total number of values.

$$\text{mean} = \frac{13+15+16+16+19+20+20+21+22+22+25+25+25+25+30+33+33+35+35+35+35+36+40+45+46+52+70}{27} = 30$$

The median (middle valueof the ordered set, as the number of values in the set is odd) of the data is: 

$$\text{median} = 25$$

(b) The mode is the most common value in the dataset. In this case, there are two modes: 25 and 35. The data is bimodal.

(c) The midrange is the average of the smallest and largest values in the dataset.

$$\text{midrange} = \frac{13+70}{2} = 41.5$$

(d) The first quartile (Q1) is the value below which 25% of the data falls. The third quartile (Q3) is the value below which 75% of the data falls.

(e) The five-number summary consists of the minimum value, Q1, median, Q3, and maximum value:

```
Minimum: 13

Q1: 20

Median: 25

Q3: 35

Maximum: 70
```

