
A nominal attribute may have two or more states as values (if only two, then it is binary).

Let the number of states for a nominal attribute be $M$.

For convenience, we denote the states by integers $1,2,...,M$  but note that no ordering is implied here.

Method 1: Simple matching
Let $m$ be the number of matches  i.e. the number of attributes for which object $i$ and $j$ have the same value.
Let $p$ be the number of variables (i.e attributes for each object).
Then, define

$d(i,j) = \frac{p-m}{p}$

Similarity may then be defined as

$sim(i,j) = 1-d(i,j) = \frac{m}{p}$

Method 2: Map nominals to  a large number of binary attributes

Also called one-hot encoding.
Create a new binary attribute for each of the $M$ nominal values of the attribute.
e.g. for attribute Colour = {red, blue, green}, introduce  binary attributes Red, Blue and Green  and map an object with Colour = red to the corresponding object with attribute Red = 1, attribute Blue = 0 and attribute Green = 0.
Then use any method for the proximity of binary attributes.

---

## Proximity Measures for Binary Attributes 

- Binary attributes have only one of two values: 0 or 1.
- The attributes may be symmetric or asymmetric: asymmetric means the 1-value state is more important than the 0-value state.
- Treating the values as numeric can be misleading.
- The methods presented in this subsection require that all the attributes of the objects are binary.

### Contingency Table

- Let us consider a pair of objects i and j with a total number of attributes p.
- Let q be the number of attributes that equal 1 for both  i and j.
- Let r be the number of attributes that equal 1 for object  i  but 0 for object  j.
- Let s be the number of attributes that equal 0 for object  i  but 1 for object  j. 
- Let t  be the number of attributes that equal 0 for both object  i  and object  j.  
- Then p = q+r+s+t  and we have the contingency table below. 

### Contingency table

|                 | Object i  | Object j |
|-----------------|-----------|----------|
| Attributes = 1  | q         | r        |
| Attributes = 0  | s         | t        |

### Symmetric binary dissimilarity

- Then the dissimilarity is defined as the proportion of non-matching attributes amongst all attributes.

Dissimilarity for symmetric binary attributes d(i,j) = (r + s) / (q + r + s + t)


### Asymmetric binary dissimilarity

- The agreement of two 1 values (i.e. the agreement of the important values, a positive match) counts more than the agreement of two 0 values (i.e. a negative match).
- Dissimilarity is defined as the corresponding similarity, asymmetric binary similarity, is also called the Jaccard coefficient and is widely used. It is also called coherence.

Dissimilarity for asymmetric binary attributes d(i,j) = (r + s + s) / (q + r + s + t) sim(i,j) = 1 - d(i,j)


- Alternatively, viewing each object as set of  asymmetric attributes, where each attribute is either present or absent (and so binary), the Jaccard similarity between two objects can be thought of as the size of the intersection of the two sets divided by the size of the union of the sets.

### Example of symmetric binary dissimilarity

Consider this morbidity data.

| Name | Adult/Child | Fever | Cough | Test-1 | Test-2 | Test-3 | Test-4 |
|------|-------------|-------|-------|--------|--------|--------|--------|
| Jack | A           | 0     | 1     | 0      | 0      | 0      | 0      |
| Mary | C           | 1     | 0     | 1      | 0      | 1      | 0      |
| Jim  | A           | 1     | 0     | 0      | 0      | 0      | 0      |

Instead of using a contingency table as above, we simply count the non-matching attributes, which is equivalent.

- `d(Jack, Mary) = (1+0+0+0+0+1+0)/7 = 0.29`
- `d(Jack, Jim) = (0+0+1+1+0+0+0)/7 = 0.29
