
- Binary attributes have only one of two values: 0 or 1.
- The attributes may be <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">symmetric or asymmetric:</mark> <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">asymmetric means the 1-value state is more important than the 0-value state</mark>.
- Treating the values as numeric can be misleading.
- The methods presented in this subsection require that all the attributes of the objects are binary.

### Contingency Table

- Let us consider a pair of objects i and j with a total number of attributes p.
- Let q be the number of attributes that equal 1 for both  i and j.
- Let r be the number of attributes that equal 1 for object  i  but 0 for object  j.
- Let s be the number of attributes that equal 0 for object  i  but 1 for object  j. 
- Let t  be the number of attributes that equal 0 for both object  i  and object  j.  
- Then p = q+r+s+t  and we have the contingency table below. 

### Contingency table

|                 | 1 | 0|
|-----------------|-----------|----------|
| 1  | q         | r        |
| 0  | s         | t        |

### Symmetric binary dissimilarity

- Then the dissimilarity is defined as the proportion of non-matching attributes amongst all attributes.

Dissimilarity for <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">symmetric binary attributes d(i,j) = (r + s) / (q + r + s + t)</mark>


### Asymmetric binary dissimilarity

- The agreement of two 1 values (i.e. the agreement of the important values, a positive match) counts more than the agreement of two 0 values (i.e. a negative match).
- Dissimilarity is defined as the corresponding similarity, asymmetric binary similarity, is also called the Jaccard coefficient and is widely used. It is also called coherence.

Dissimilarity for asymmetric binary attributes 
- <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">d(i,j) = (r + s ) / (q + r + s )</mark>
- sim(i,j) = 1 - d(i,j)

- Alternatively, viewing each object as set of  asymmetric attributes, where each attribute is either present or absent (and so binary), the Jaccard similarity between two objects can be thought of as the size of the intersection of the two sets divided by the size of the union of the sets.
